0 (0s):
This is all my best presentations and videos on sales. You could call it my ultimate guide. Enjoy selling with logic to make lots of money. And I think there are different selling styles when I, 'cause I've trained a lot of sales teams, we've built a lot of sales teams, sold a lot of different industries. Now people sell differently. Who here would consider themselves like an emotional seller? Like you get like emotionally invested in the prospect, you get them to cry. Anybody like that? You know what I'm saying? Cool. Who here is somebody who is, is more of a like, I'm not gonna let you leave type sales, but you know who you are. Just raise your hand. I am that way too sometimes.

0 (41s):
Alright, just me. Fair enough. And then the third is kind of logical selling, which is like, let's just talk through this and if it makes sense, let's do it. And if it doesn't, no worries between those three types. I, I tend to actually be more of a logical seller in general and I've gotten a lot of acclaim, rightfully or not. That was wild. Sorry. I actually have a fear of birds. So this was about to be a very short presentation. And so, and so a lot of the, a lot of my like success using logic in sales has given me a lot of a claim. And this is the first presentation that I've put together.

0 (1m 21s):
So this is just for you guys as a brand new presentation. 'cause I've been thinking about like reverse engineering. What are the things, what are the frameworks we think about to get to Yes. Right? And the yes that I want from somebody is not a yes I'm gonna buy, but yes, I'm going to decide. And I think if you can delineate that for yourself too, it takes a little bit of the pressure off selling. 'cause my goal is to give this person power and you have to understand what power is in order to give it. Right? Who here knows the definition of power Go for it to existence. I love that. I thought to existence is what he said, which is actually a really favorite way. So the dictionary definition is the ability to influence or direct events or people.

0 (2m 3s):
That's the dictionary definition. But I love how you said it because as I see omnipotence, so God or a God figure would be as they think it appears. So the, the distance between thoughts and reality are in, there's, there is no distance, right? That would be an omnipotent being if he thinks the world, the world exists, right? And so as we take steps towards that as the ideal, we become more powerful. And if we can do that for our prospects, we can allow them to step into the person they want to be and make a decision to own their shit one way or another. Does that make sense? Cool. All right. So let's rock. So this will either be the best presentation on sales you've ever heard the worst presentation on sales you've ever heard or somewhere in between that is a promise that, all right?

0 (2m 49s):
And so I thought it would make sense to start with this. We have a high, this is Charlie Munger who's probably like my number one hero in this season of my life. We have a high moral responsibility to be rational. And I think that getting someone to rationally decide is important because emotional buyers oftentimes get excited. They'll buy and then who's had somebody who calls them two days later is like, I don't know why anybody raise your hand. Just so you know you're not alone, okay? And what happens is it's just like dating, I think Layla talked about it yesterday. If you have a rational foundation for a relationship or a decision, when the emotions fade, the logic will continue. And so it's good to, to answer both sides of the decision making process. The short term side is the emotion that gets you to decrease your action threshold and take a step, right?

0 (3m 33s):
But the logic is what makes it stick and actually makes a great customer. Alright? And so for me, and I think that the further along you get in business and the more and the higher up you get in business, the more you'll see people who tend to make more logical decisions, more logic, first decisions and fewer and fewer emotional decisions. Alright, so what does being a rational, sorry, what does rational logical have to do with selling? Well you have logical buyers and you have emotional buyers in general, right? Most people sit on this continuum one way or the other. And emotionally, people want to believe you. People want to buy, you must help their logical brains justify the decision that they already want to make.

0 (4m 15s):
Think about it that way. They want to buy from you, you have to help them, right? So who here identifies, actually I'll skip through this. Emotional logical, you're probably in between anybody in between these two, anyone. Alright then you'll love this. So before we get started, I thought I would give you a few beliefs about selling that have served me very well throughout the years. Number one, people want to believe you. They want to buy, you must help their logical brains. Brains justify the decision. Two, selling happens before you ask for the sale. Closing happens after. So you're selling for a lot longer period of time. But the moment you kind of like take your pants off and you're like this is what it is, that's when you're closing, right?

0 (5m 1s):
You have now solicited, now you close. Three, it's easier to handle obstacles than objections. I'll get to what the difference between those are in a second. That being said, expect and plan for. No, it is not failure. It is expected. So stop being surprised. That's one of the first things we talk new sales guys into is expect no, that's not like that's a part of this. If they already were going to say yes, then you are not necessary. No is the job right? If they could make the decision on their own, they would just send you the money, right?

0 (5m 41s):
The reason they're struggling is because they can't and they need your help. Which is why sales is actually the first step in coaching. And I see sales as power. If you can have the ability to direct or influence others, that is power. And I feel like it should be made much cooler than I feel like it is. Five. If you didn't get a gasp from a price tag, you didn't go high enough. This is another belief. So for those of you who are afraid to raise your price, if you're not getting gasps, you're not going high enough straight up. And when you do it that way, you can always walk down and have a beautiful price anchor, right? When you say a hundred thousand dollars first, a grand feels like a rounding error.

0 (6m 22s):
It's true. But when I say $10 first, like I'm saying it right now, $10 and I say a thousand sounds way fucking bigger, doesn't it? So you gotta get the gas and you gotta train your guys. If you have a team they have to be comfortable with. No. And they have to be comfortable with the gasp. They gotta go for the gasp and be like, dude, you should have heard the gasp on this one. Right? There we go. Seven, selling properly is the first at becoming a coach, right? Your first impressions and the expeditions you set dictate the relationship. How you sell. The fact that you use logic in the sale will set you up for success and your client for success in the long run. Eight selling is helping prospects make decisions to help themselves like you are helping them help themselves.

0 (7m 2s):
That's where the power comes from. You are not helping them, you're helping them help them see the difference. It's nuance, but it's real. Nine, keep the prospect not the sale as the priority. It's not about us. The more you can vanish in the sale and and magnify them, the better your selling conversations will go. Because it's not about us. They don't care about you, they only care about them and they will talk about themselves as long as I'll let 'em. This is a really important one, especially when you start to getting into closing. Seek to understand, not to argue. And the way that I train our sales teams around this is childlike curiosity.

0 (7m 44s):
So when someone says, when someone objects to something, it's like, huh, that's so weird. I wouldn't have thought that. Tell me more about that. Right? And you get to be able to maintain that childlike curiosity. The same way they train fighters to not breathe too much during a fight through exposure. The more you, more times you get into these uncomfortable high stakes closing scenarios, the less weird and high stakes they become because they become what you do every day. And the good thing is you get to have this conversation hundreds and thousands of times and they only get to have it once. So you fucking better be better at it than them. Closing is a dance, not a fight. It's seduction, not rape.

0 (8m 28s):
I mean I'm being super serious about this. The goal is not to beat them into submission. The goal is to sell from your back foot. It's like I'm good, I want to help you, help you. And if that means not doing this, then I fucking love it. I'm with you, I'm on your team and I'll give you a bullet on that in a second. Selling is a transference of belief over a bridge of trust. Therefore there are two things that are required. You must believe so that you can transfer it and you must have trust to make the transfer. Because if you truly believe, and a lot of times you anyone been on a hot streak when they're selling anyone, anyone who just had their hand up ever been on a cold streak, most times you go from hot to cold, not because you forgot how to sell, but because you stop believing in why you're selling.

0 (9m 18s):
You have the same skills as you did the day before, but sometimes you get a text, you get an email, get a pain in the ass customer, you ask for a refund, whatever the hell it is, right? And then you question yourself. And so that bridge might have been created but there was nothing to walk across it because your cup wasn't full. And so that's why, especially it's you in the beginning, but your teams over time, the process of filling conviction is one of the easiest and best ways to increase someone's closing percentage better than any of the training in the world. If you get someone to believe they will sell the right way because they're doing it not to make the deal because they want to help the other person. 16, you can only build trust if you genuinely want to help. And humans are exceptionally good at sniffing out intention.

0 (9m 58s):
It's a survival mechanism. You have to know if someone's trying to double cross, you we're very good at smelling it out. And the reason a lot of you guys can't close is because you only care about closing belief and trust are a continuum, not binaries. So it's not you believe or don't believe, it's not they trust you or don't trust you. But how much do they trust you? How much do you believe? How deeply do you believe? Because anyone ever been around somebody who just believes balls to bone, something that you think is batshit crazy and like, I mean all the way, so much so that you start to question what you believe. That's what real conviction does. 18 closers ask hard questions. And it's because you genuinely care. That's why you do it.

0 (10m 38s):
It's why we're here. Who here wants to impact thousands of lives and help people? And you gotta fucking ask hard questions because it's the only thing that's gonna actually pierce someone's heart and actually get the transformation to happen. If you can't make, if you cannot have transformational conversations, you cannot coach. And this is the first step. The person who cares the most about the prospect wins the sale. That includes them. So if you care more about their wellbeing than they do, you will win. And if you are more convicted, they will question their own excuses because you are so certain. Little tip, little nugget for you. Record all your sales by the way. Because when you do get on that hot streak, right, and you get on that hot streak and then you get cold again, watch your hot streak.

0 (11m 25s):
See where you pause, what jokes you made when you asked for the sale, when you didn't, how you overcame it. And it'll get you back in the flow much faster than trying to question yourself. What do I do? What do I do? Always record all your sales. It's also the easiest way to train new people. And then lastly, 21 power is the ability to direct or influence people. If you want to be powerful, you must understand this skill. And that's what we're gonna talk about. Cool, awesome. When does selling happen? Does it happen when they're a lead? Does it happen when we're qualifying them? Does it happen when we solicit the sale? Does it happen when we close the sale? When does the selling happen?

0 (12m 5s):
All the time. The entire time selling is happening. But what are we gonna talk about today? Just this, just closing everything you have to do after asking someone to buy. Why are we doing that rather than the entire process beyond the fact that we'd be here all day. The other reason, and I love this, is that closing has one of the highest predictors of success in business. And here's an analogy for it. Everyone familiar with the NFL? Yeah. Great. So here's an insane statistic. The top five red zone offenses in the league now last five years, made the playoffs 90% of the time. Here's why this is interesting and crazy.

0 (12m 46s):
There's a million other stats. They could have horrible defenses. They could have terrible coaching, they could have a terrible whatever it is, right? They could have all these things that are wrong with their, they could have terrible special teams, whatever, but just this one set, if they're in the red zone, they fucking close. And I can tell you, if you have this ability, if you have the skill, it will make up for a tremendous amount of deficiencies in other areas of your life and business. And it will buy you time to learn those. But if you can't close, it's very difficult to grow in business, especially in the beginning. 'cause it's probably you. That's why we're talking about closing. Why is this important from a money getting perspective?

0 (13m 27s):
Well first off, if you have a hundred people walk in the door, 10% are never gonna buy. Just accept that, right? Problem is you don't know which 10% it is, but 10% are ever gonna buy. 10% are always gonna buy. You just gotta not fuck it up. And most of you guys, these are the only sales you're getting. They're like, well I already, I'm already here. My friend told me about you, I have my credit card out. And some people are like, well you know, let's make sure you're like, just shut the fuck. Just take the card. You know what I mean? Like shut up, right? That's like, Hey my friend's so awesome. You gotta meet him. And she's like, oh my God, he's great. And then the guy starts talking and she's like, oh, just kidding. You know, like, like terrible, right? But this is what we fight for.

0 (14m 8s):
This is what we train. And if you wanna make a big impact, that's what we're fighting for. It's the middle 80. Why This presentation will make you money if after this presentation you just have one more bullet, one more play in your arsenal to close or I get you one more deal a month, I'll feel like my job was done. All right? And hopefully if you just do that, it'll pay for your entire weekend. All right? That's my goal for the bread stage. That everything that you guys have done for this whole weekend is paid for. Is that cool? Fair outcome. Alright, so this is one of my favorite sayings. You're only one decision away from changing your life forever. And whenever I feel overwhelmed or I feel like I'm decreasing, like I feel powerless or I feel like I have less power than I want to have, I always say this to myself 'cause it's like I can take one decision and change fucking everything.

0 (14m 53s):
You know what I mean? Like I can, I can drink a bottle of jack, get in the car, I can change everything with one decision, right? I can make a step to to invest in something. I can buy something, I can invest in myself, I can, I can have a terrible conversation with Layla. I an amazing conversation with Layla, but just one decision and that's always given me power. But the thing is, is that instead of changing our lives, we blame. And when I say blame, I want you to think give power to sources outside of our control. And this is what you, and this is what your prospects and your customers are doing. And this is why so many people are weak and powerless. And so we're gonna do a fun activity today because I want you to be involved so you can learn it and we're gonna do this so that one, you can help decisions to help yourself with whatever decisions you're facing.

0 (15m 36s):
Two, you can use these frameworks to help prospects help themselves. And then three, become more powerful. So, but rather than keep this hypothetical, I need you to visualize the decision that you need to make. All right? You do that for me? Yes. Fantastic. And this is why I want you to actually think through a decision together because this is a statement from Confucius. I hear and I forget. I see. And I remember I do and I understand. So my goal here isn't for you to take screenshots of every picture, of every slide. That's not my point here. Because the thing is, is when you do that and you kind of, I mean this is why I do it. I take pictures so that I don't have to remember it, but I don't want you to remember it. I want you to understand it. If you understand it, you won't have to go back to your notes.

0 (16m 17s):
'cause let's be real half the time you're not even gonna open these notes up again. You're here now with me. Try and understand if you do that, it can change your life. Because what we're gonna do is not gonna be some scripts that you have to understand, but the logic behind the arguments that people will give you as to why they're not choosing to become more powerful. And if you can unlock that, you people will feel more powerful talking to you and they will want to buy from you because of the feeling they have. Does that make sense? And so that's when you're using logic to create an emotion. So you hear, here's an easy one for you. Anyone here presented with a decision in the last 24 hours? Yes. Great. Fantastic. So who thinks the A decision could change your life for the better, great for the worse. Who knows? Alright, let's go. So here's my goal.

0 (16m 58s):
I wanna show you as though you were prospect how to think through a decision and help others using these frameworks, right? What you want, what you don't want, maximize the left, minimize the right. So here's what this is translated to. If you decide to buy the offer, you feel more certain about your decision. If you decided not to buy the offer, you feel fucking certain about the decision. And if you are undecided, you make a fucking decision. Alright? And you feel good that it's the one that is the highest likelihood of getting you closer to where you want to go. And this is what we have to walk through with our prospects. When you're looking at them, you have to be like, I don't want you to buy. I want you to decide for you, not for me. I'll be the same either way, right? You're like, I'm gonna be ripped in shape, it's not gonna change me.

0 (17m 38s):
That's not gonna change. But like it will change for you, right? So quick note on sales ethics and then we'll dive in. Helping someone make a decision to help themselves does not mean buying from you. That's a reiteration. You have to keep their goals at the center of the decision and you should be happy. I mean this because if you can shift this truly, if you can be happy when someone decides to own the power and not work with you, then the pressure around sales disappears. It evaporates. There's no stake. The stake is did I help them? Does that make sense? And that means that you can win every sale because you change the metric you're measuring yourself by. That's the superpower. Like and that's where you do make the most sales because you don't care about the sale because you care about the person and the people pay the people who pay the most attention.

0 (18m 22s):
So I call it paying attention. They pay for it. They pay for you to pay attention rather than talking about yourself, right? Because they don't care about you 'cause they're thinking about a hundred other things. And this is why most importantly make high stakes decisions to help your prospects in order to best serve them. Okay? So I told you earlier I was gonna talk about the difference between obstacles and objections. A couple of you guys raised your hands, but the differences I'm not gonna ask, I'll tell you what it's obstacle is a thing that blocks one's way or prevents or hinders progress when you disagree with them. That is an obstacle. This happens before you solicit the sale. Someone says some bullshit before you even get to the sale.

0 (19m 2s):
That's an obstacle. A simple example I hear all the time, Hey why'd you hop on the call today? Hey, why'd you walk in the gym today? Whatever it is, right? Them. I just wanted to find out a little bit more about the program first 10 seconds obstacle. You're not here to find out more about the program here 'cause you're fat, but they gotta say it. So you're like, oh. So you're finding out like do you do this all the time? Do you go to lots of different programs to find out information or is there a problem you're trying to solve? And they're like, oh well you know, I'm trying to lose weight. Like oh got it. So you're not just hopping on a hundred calls a day. 'cause I was like, that would be a very weird existence, right? You just hop on for information all day. Ha ha ha ha ha. Great, fantastic. I've had this conversation before, right?

0 (19m 42s):
So it's an obstacle, right? And the thing is it's easy confront and destroy obstacles before you ask for the sale. Once you've asked for the sale, you switch to objections. Objections is when they disagree with you. So it's much easier to be on the other side disagreeing and helping them break their beliefs before the stake has been presented after. After the after you're in the red zone, it's all closing, it's all objection overcomes, right? Example that's like I don't wanna buy right now. And you're like totally understand what are the main criteria thinking through, which is always funny 'cause people are like, I need to think about it. I've never had someone like leave because they need to think about it. I'm like, cool, what are you thinking about? And they're like, oh I'm still here.

0 (20m 24s):
Right? Like, so learning how to talk through these high stakes decisions with yourself or others is the purpose of presentation. And as a result you'll become more powerful. Okay? So before I dive into these arch, each of these arguments, I have to make this one statement that the person must really want the goal and believe three things. One, which we'll get to it, there we go. The product will get 'em the goal, comma the way they want to get there. And I learned that second half the hard way because we found out in gym launch that people would say no sometimes to buying memberships, right? Or buying challenges or whatever. But when we offered them the ability to come back the next day, help 'em for free, we'd sell 'em $400 of supplements and they just said no to a hundred dollars down service thing.

0 (21m 7s):
I'm like what the fuck? It's because they wanna lose weight but they wanna lose weight their way. And so that's when I started learning like, oh, not only do we have to make sure that they want the goal and they believe that the product's gonna get them there, but it has to get 'em there the way they want to get there. This gives you ammo for the questions that you're gonna ask. Does this make sense? Okay, the second thing is that you and others will support them. Like are you telling me the truth? Is this really what's going to happen? Will other people around me support this decision? And the third is that it will work for them and not just everyone else. Sure I've seen the people who step on the stage but they're different than me.

0 (21m 47s):
I'm a snowflake. I have metabolic thyroid, ketos, right? Whatever I have zero influence ledger, whatever, you know what I mean? Like I have no following is itis, right? Whatever it is, right? Whatever bullshit you tell yourself. And what you have to do in this situation is you have to provide proof so that it'd be more unreasonable not to believe than to believe. And this is a logical close. This is not a, this is not an emotional close. This is when you look at someone and say, how many people would you need to see for it to be more unreasonable for you not to believe than to believe? At what point is it 10? Is it 50? Well here's a thousand, tell me when to stop. Okay, okay, okay great.

0 (22m 27s):
So that's not the real reason and then you can confront the real shit. Alright? So otherwise, if they're not sure of those things, if they don't actually wanna lose weight, if you don't actually wanna make money doing online fitness, then it doesn't matter what Jason says, you don't wanna make money doing online fitness, then you're not gonna buy, right? If you do wanna make money doing online fitness, then you go down, you go down the train, the train tracks that make sense, okay? Again, this is why you expect no at first because if people could make the decision, they would've already made it. Alright? Now to the main course, Richard Feynman, besides Charlie, one of my favorite thinkers of all time, he was like the second guy on the atom bomb sounds negative, brilliant teacher. He is known for this. Understand, don't memorize, learn principles, not formulas.

0 (23m 8s):
And that's what the rest of this presentation is about is the principles behind overcoming these distortions that people have. And so this is me asking you for your own sake, don't take pictures of the slides, it's 'cause all the stuff's gonna be in the recordings. But you are here now, so be here now so you can understand it. Okay? So there are three sources. This was a huge breakthrough for me so I'm gonna share it with you. The first time I shared life, there are three sources that we cast our power to, okay? And it took me a very long time to get through this because I looked at Grant and he had his, you know you got stall decision maker money, then you talked to Barry who owned Sage, he's like, you got time, fit, money, fear, shame, right?

0 (23m 49s):
Those are hers. And then Jordan Belfort's got his and so everybody's got like, these are the only overcomes, right? I was like there has to be an actual truth here. Like there has to be something that's true, that's unquestioned. And so trying to figure this out, I actually went back to Dr. Albert Ellis. Anybody who knew he is no one great, who here knows what cognitive behavioral therapy is. CBT, he invented it. Smart dude. And so what he noticed is that he originally had 11 distortions of reality and he dropped it to nine then a seven and they came a three and the three stuck and the three are what I'm about to share with you. And you're like, why is he talking about this? About sales? Because the objections that people offer you, where they cast their power to are distortions of reality.

0 (24m 34s):
They're the things we use to upset ourselves. These are the three circumstances and this is the irrational statement that people make. I must get what I want when I want it. I must not get what I don't want. If I don't get what I want, I can't stand it. 'cause when people blame their emotional disturbances on emotional disturbances on circumstances, two others, other people must treat me fairly and kindly. And if I, if they don't, they're no good and deserve to be condemned and punished. It's like your animal brain, right? Three self, I must do well or else I am no good. These are the three core distortions that upset people. This is like mental illness, right?

0 (25m 16s):
And so I'm not saying anyone has mental illness if they don't agree with you, it's more so that these are distortions that are not real. And if you can understand, not memorize, if you can understand this, then you can have these high stakes conversations understanding exactly which distortion they're suffering from and I'll show you how to overcome them. Okay? And so I like to consider like the onion of blame people. This is like one of the bigger breakthroughs I had. They start with the outside, they blame circumstances, time, money, other shit. And then the step next to that, they start to blame other people, my spouse, my kids, my employees. And then finally they say like, it's me. It's my fault. And so you might have to overcome multiple layers as you peel back and based on the objection they give you, you can know where you're at, you can know how close you are.

0 (26m 3s):
If someone just says, I have to think about it. And you're like, great, I'm talking to the person who's in power and the decision maker that I just need to get them to say yes if they're like I don't have, they're casting the power away. And some of you guys are probably casting your power away on decisions you need to make, which is why I'm making this presentation. Even though that these are the things that distort people's realities. 'cause you're like, no one's ever said circumstances are getting in my way, right? Like no one says that they manifest in five ways that I want to equip you to deal with, alright? For yourself and others. So these are the five most common excuses scapegoats that people use for circum. And if you find other ones, these are the biggest buckets. 'cause I didn't wanna have a hundred things here, but the big three buckets are circumstances, others and and self, right?

0 (26m 44s):
But they manifest with time in multiple ways. And I'll show you how value, price, money, et cetera, fit. I'm a special snowflake. Others which is I don't have the authority to make the decision. And then finally self, which is what if I just don't make the decision, let some let life make it for me, right? Avoidance stall. You go from surface level to core. And as a side note, you should never get stuck on the stuff near the top. And ideally you should really never get stuck anywhere on this equation. If the person wants what you have and you truly believe in what you have to help them. And I mean that like if you understand this thoroughly, you can walk someone towards helping themselves, okay, this is what they look like or this is what they sound like in reality.

0 (27m 29s):
Not a good, not a good time. Right now I'm really busy, right? That's time. Can't afford it. Too expensive fit. Not sure if it's for me. I hate broccoli. I can't do a plan with broccoli, right? I can't do a plan where I have to DM people every day. It's against my brand. I'm poor but it's against my brand, right? Authority have to talk to my partner, spouse. I have to talk to somebody who has more power than me. It's funny 'cause when you start thinking this way, it sounds silly. And then avoidance, I need to think about it clearly. Let's think about it now. All right? And so I told you, I want you to think about the principles behind these things. Not memorize. You've got circumstances, you've got other people and you have yourself. And we drill down.

0 (28m 9s):
So quick test. Who here is physically in the room? Raise your step. Wonderful. Arms are working, we're rocking. So here's my ask, raise your hand if you or your prospects present with this distortion. So who here is a time person? I'm busy, it's not a good time. Maybe in the future. Anyone deal with these? Sometimes it's yourself. Totally. So I'm also gonna tell you a secret about this. I think the reason I got pretty decent at logical arguments is because I am inherently skeptical and I will paralyze myself from not doing anything unless I have really sound reasons to do it. And I realized that I couldn't move forward and make any progress in my life until I had these frameworks to think through these hard decisions through so I could start taking steps to where where I wanted to go.

0 (28m 52s):
It took me years to get there. And so hopefully I can give you some keys that help me unlock my own head to get outta my own fucking way so that you can too and help your clients. Alright, so the way I think about time and there's a lot of overcomes for all of these things, what I try to do is bunch the three biggest ones that I like to use most frequently. And if I veer from like the the bullets on the screen, it's 'cause I'm riffing with you and I'd rather just kind of stay in the flow. Is that cool? Yeah. Okay, fantastic. So when you're overcoming this one, each of these is kind of a specific angle that you're attacking it from. So macro is like, this is a busy season for me. I've got lots of stuff going on, right? Micro is like I don't have any time in my day.

0 (29m 35s):
So you're one person saying I've got lots of shit going on. One person's like I can't find the time. It's different. Sounds subtle, but it's both about time but in different ways. Alright? And then the the last one is, well when when I have time I'll start, right? Which everyone knows this fucking horse shit but whatever. Okay? So as always, we never disagree with prospects because you're not in a fight. Totally get it. Totally understand. Do you think like do you want this to be something that lasts for the long term, right? It's a question like yeah. Do you think that you're gonna be busy again in the future? Well yeah. So you want this to last in the long run and you do think you're gonna be busy again in the future. Well then don't you think it'd be best to start now when you are busy?

0 (30m 15s):
'cause if you learn how to do it when you're busy, you'll be able to do it forever. If you can only learn it during a perfect circumstance, then you're gonna fall off when it gets busy again. And isn't that the time you'd want to have the most support? It goes for you guys too. Well that's just number one. We got so many more, right? And so when you knock that out, the goal is that the person says well fuck, that's not a good reason. And you take one step towards the truth. So when you're thinking about it, it's not like, oh I've gotta overcome this one thing and then they'll buy. You gotta keep peeling. And if you have this framework, you understand the direction you're going in and you can start listening for the, oh, they're talking about themselves. Now I've gotten two layers deeper, right? So that's seasonal. Micro, you can't tell someone in a sale, Hey take out your phone, take out your hours by week, pull it up.

0 (31m 0s):
Oh look, 22 hours on social media this week. You've got time. So you say it differently. You say, you know what, I had the same issue and I used to complain all the time about like how I didn't have time to, to be successful and do things I needed to do. And my wife got so sick and tired of me saying this, she pulled my phone out and she was like, look, I guess I just found your time, didn't I? I was like, ah, fuck. And you can say it that way and then a prospect feels better. Does anybody here feel like they don't have time? Right? And the first thing that any program's gonna do if it's a good program is gonna cut out the 90% of the shit that you are doing, which is causing you to feel overwhelmed. Which is probably the real reason you feel like you don't have time Jeff Beil got the same time you do, right? It's just what are the things that you're doing that he's not, it's not about adding shit to your plate, it's about removing stuff that's not working.

0 (31m 44s):
'cause clearly everything you're doing that's filling your time is not making you more money so you're doing the wrong shit. So there's gonna be plenty of time. 'cause all the stuff you're doing now is not working right? Sounds simple, but that's the reason, right? So we want macro grow when then, hey, in the future when I've got time, I'll totally sign up for your program, right? Anyone heard this one? Anyone say this one? Right? And again, you want to, you want to empathize. You don't say like, ah, that's bullshit. You say totally understand that's I was stuck like this for years. If you can step in their shoes, you're not attacking them, you actually go from the inside out. You step into their self and then you walk them through the epiphany that you experienced and it doesn't feel judgmental, it feels helpful.

0 (32m 28s):
That make sense? I used to feel the same way, right? And I found this out actually from Jason Flatley and he was the one who told me this. It was, it's a, it's a logical fallacy. It's called the when then fallacy, which is why it's how I remember it. And the one then fallacy simply states, when I have X, then I will do Y. But it flips sequence. So it's like when I get better, I will go to the hospital. Sorry, there's just so many like hilarious ones about like money and stuff. Like I'll start saving money once I'm rich. Like, alright. But the thing is, is that we do this, right? We do this, I'll pay for the program that'll make me more money when I have more money. That's the point of the program.

0 (33m 8s):
I'll pay for the program that'll help me get a six pack once I have a six pack, once I have more time, which the program's gonna help me have, you know what I'm saying? Like it's just, it doesn't make, it's a fallacy. And so what that means is it's a distortion, it's not real. And so the goal of having these high stakes conversations is simply showing people we're not attacking, we're just walking 'em through it and be like, do you realize that this is holding me back and I know this better than anyone 'cause I'm a skeptical motherfucker. The reason I can do all these logical things is 'cause I'm the first person I'd overcome, right? And you might be too. So once we attack time from these three angles, it depends which one they present with. If they present with one and then move to the next, you can knock all three out.

0 (33m 48s):
You'll probably find some that that make the most sense to you. But the thing here is it's not about memorization. You just gotta get it macro. You're always gonna be busy. Won't you want the most help when you are busy so they can stick forever? Yes, time. My wife showed me my phone turns out I got fucking time. But the reality is it's not about what I am doing, it's about the stuff I gotta stop doing. And that's what I help you with, right? This isn't scripting, this is just understanding it, right? And then when, then it's a fallacy, it's a distortion, it's not real. And then just use two crazy examples. Like once I have money then, or I'll save money when I'm rich, right? Just like ridiculous. Okay, so what do we do? One reason down and we're getting closer to the core, right?

0 (34m 29s):
Right. So who here is somebody who's like, I can't afford it, it's too expensive or has heard this from a prospect. I was like, I better see everybody's hands, especially if you're selling high ticket, which hopefully you get a gasp. So these are the four frameworks that I think through. There's a million like money closes, but these are the ones that I like the most. And that that, that to me resonate the best, right? And so why a lot is good is kinda like my, my my first one here. And so the reason that if someone gasps or think that this is a lot of money, you just ask 'em, is this a lot of money to you? And they're gonna say, yeah, if they say no, then you're like awesome. Buy it. And if they say yes, right? And if they say yes, then you're like, that's the exact reason how you're gonna be successful because there's other people who buy this thing and you know what, they're not all in on it.

0 (35m 16s):
But the question is, do you wanna draw the line in the sand and go all in? Do you wanna step over the line and be the person you wanna be? Because I can tell you that this is not about whether this works or not. I've already proven that the questions whether you work or not. And so if you put more on the line, then you have a high likelihood of being successful. So you should be the last person to be worried about this. I'm more excited because the best stories are always coming from people like you in your exact situation. So only that be a reason not to do it. That should be the reason to do it. So the next one is like, why is this not a lot? So first is the fact that it's a lot for you is good. It means you're gonna try hard. The second one is like, well it's a lot in terms of absolute amount, but relative amount it's very little, right? Because if all this does is add $10,000 a month to your income, is it worth it?

0 (36m 1s):
If all this does is get you into a bikini, is it worth it? Yeah. And so then what happens? And the reason that this is a stepping process, right? Is that we're, we're just taking these objections out of the way so we can get the person to confront reality, not a distortion they've created because the reality is the thing they're afraid of. And so what happens is when they say, yeah, if it did that, it would be worth it, right? The problem is they don't believe you, right? And so it's like great then it's not about the price, it's about whether you believe me so you can sidestep it. Does that make sense? We're taking a step closer. And then obviously you can use a comparison. You know, depending on what you're selling. If you can price anchor with like, well here they don't have a four year degree for doing online fitness.

0 (36m 44s):
That's why the alternative education industry exists. And it's because the formal education has failed most of us, right? Anybody graduated with here with a four year degree, anyone immediately be able to use that four year degree to get leads, make sales? No, me neither, right? And what's crazy is that some of these degrees are 50, a hundred, $200,000 and take four years when you've got something that can help you make, make that entire amount of money in half the time, right? For a 10th of the price. When you think about it like that frame, it's actually a great deal. Does that make sense? So you just frame it, you have to give context. Alright? So number one is the fact that it's a lot for you is good.

0 (37m 26s):
It means you're actually gonna try. Number two is if it does what we say it's, it's gonna do the value's there. So that's not actually what you're opposed to, which then we can take the next step. Alright? Number three is what's money good for anyways, this is actually one of my favorite lines of reasoning for a variety of reasons and I'll get to it. When you're looking at prospect or you're looking at yourself, you're gonna spend this money either way over the next 12 months you're gonna spend it, right? And in fact, not only are you gonna spend it, you're going to buy the program. The question is whether you're gonna pay for it in money or pay for it in time. And so like you can learn every single lesson that's in this program, whether it's losing weight, you know, getting leads, selling online, whatever it is, right?

0 (38m 8s):
You're gonna learn these lessons. But do you want it to take 12 weeks or 12 years? And the question is, are you gonna be able to live a thousand lifetimes because of the thousand people that we've helped just like you and gathered all those lessons and put them together so you don't have to do the trial and error for that entire period of time. So the question is not whether you're gonna buy it or not, it's just how do you wanna pay? And so for me, this is a personal note and I'll, I'll probably say it at the end, but like the reason we've been able move quickly through life is that that I will buy other people's mistakes. 'cause it's just, it's the only way you can buy time in this life is to buy the knowledge, to take less time from other people who have taken their time. And like if you think about human civilization in general, Edison took however long to make a light bulb and then we just bought the lesson from him and now we have light bulbs, right?

0 (38m 52s):
And the next guy figures out the next thing and then we just buy the lesson from him. And that's how we have to move faster. So you're gonna spend the money either way. The question is, 12 months from now, is it gonna be on shit that didn't get you anywhere or stuff that is going to get you somewhere? And no matter what you're buying, you're buying the program, you're just gonna pay time, you're gonna pay with money. And if we're being real, you've probably been paying for time the last six years. How's that working for you? Do you wanna do more of that? This is also, this is a, this is a classic one. It's a very easy one to remember, but like who here knows the difference between a self-made billionaire when they had nothing And where you're at right now, if you have nothing, zero. They both, you're both broke, they were broke, you're broke.

0 (39m 34s):
Whatever it is, if that's where you're at right now, the only difference is that that proves that if they were successful, it wasn't about the resources they had, it's about how resourceful they were. So I'll tell you a quick story about this. So anyone here read Shoe Dog, right? The story of Nike. So in the story he talks about how he was about to lose everything multiple times. It's a crazy story. And this time it was like it was, it was gonna go down like it wasn't gonna happen. And he needed a tremendous amount of money and he just didn't have it. He'd extend all his credit lines, the banks wouldn't do it. And the next lenders said they, they canceled on him and the the company was gonna fold 'cause he was growing too fast. At that point he could have just given up and said, there's nothing I can do. I maxed on my cards, I maxed out all my banks, there's literally nothing I can do.

0 (40m 17s):
And his people had already worked for free and they were like, we can't do this anymore. He went to his vendors and said, you need to pay my payroll for me. He went to his vendors. Anybody use like landing page software? Anyone or anyone use something from a vendor, right? It's like going to that guy, like going to your videographer and you're like, listen, you gotta pay payroll for me this, this month. 'cause otherwise I'm not gonna be able to keep doing business with you 'cause I'll be out of business resourceful, not resources. And the reason this is so important is because when you have nothing, it's the easiest excuse to give yourself because you're like, well I have nothing. That's why I can't. It's like, of course, but every self-made millionaire and every self-made billionaire was self-made.

0 (40m 57s):
And they started with nothing, which puts 'em in the exact same seat you are. So the question is, do you want to have power or do you wanna not have power? Wanna have power? Your resourceful not resources, right? And so if we wanna make these decisions that are going to help ourselves, we need to step into that. And so when you're talking to your prospects, it's the same thing, right? Does that make sense? Okay, rocking. I mean, and you can drill deeper into this as like, do you think there's anyone else who's been in your situation who's achieved this or maybe worse than your situation? The answer is yes. And if they can, why can't you? Right? So we're taking steps closer. Is it, are you guys digging this? Yes. Okay, cool. Oh thanks.

0 (41m 37s):
Okay, thanks. I wasn't sure if it was rap attention or sheer boredom. So we're not, you feel, you feel we're progress. You're making like the person presents this says, I don't have time. Think shit's busy, blah, blah, blah. And you're like, Nope, no, we're gonna take one step closer. And they're like, you know what? But I I, I don't have the money or it's too expensive. You're like, well if you don't have the money, you're gonna be successful. It's worth it, right? Yes. I understand why it's worth it. Well, you don't need money to begin with, right? You gotta be resourceful and you can find the money. 'cause I'll ask you, this is a fun one for business owners. Who here has had an unexpected bill ever come up? Taxes, right?

0 (42m 18s):
Yep. Yeah. And then all, okay, so everyone here is still alive. Who raised their hands? Who here was able to magically pull money out of their ass and figure out a way to do it? Raise your hand. Here's what's crazy. You have the ability to be resourceful when it's for someone else and not for you. And it's because you choose to be powerful when someone else needs it, but not for yourself. Fucked up, right? So stop doing that. If you function like you have to make payroll tomorrow and like you, you're back on rent and you're gonna get kicked out, you think differently.

0 (43m 0s):
And if instead of paying your landlord, you're paying you because that's what you want to do, it shifts internally because everyone's here. Just prove the fact that you can be resourceful when you choose to be. So just choose to be. So number three is it's not, not sure it's a fit for me. So be besides the obvious ones, which is like, I don't wanna work out. Broccoli sucks. I I can't do a program where, where I, I can't do cardio, whatever the fuck, right? Like I said, I don't wanna do dms, I don't wanna post on Instagram, I don't wanna have a Facebook group, whatever, right? Whatever the bullshit is, alright? I'm not sure if the vehicle is a fit for me. So usually you can overcome the easy ones. But if someone is just really sticking hard, these are the three that I use to, to shift perspective.

0 (43m 44s):
Okay? So this one is new identity, new priorities. So it's good to have cues for these things, which is like we vote with our dollars about the things that we care about. And if you show me what someone is spending their money and their time on, I can tell you what their future is. And I'll tell you an interesting story. So I had somebody who was just like you, who was like, you know what, I don't wanna do this either. And I told her this story, can I tell you it? Yes. And this is what you'd say to the prospect, right? So I was with Layla and we went to Sephora, which is a makeup store. And, and I show up like this, I feel welcomed. And so we're, we're standing there, she's doing something and I usually stand in the corner like this.

0 (44m 26s):
And I saw these two little girls, it might have been like, I don't know, girl age. So like 12 to 15, this, like this, this. And they were like giggling, so excited. And they had like, the girl with the smock came over, was like helping her out, helping them out. And she was like, okay, this is like eyeliner and this is lipstick and this is whatever blush I, I'm just like using words I've heard this is how you paint your face. And the thing is, is the girls were like so excited and then they were like right before they left, she was like girls, she's like, you have to remember like now that you're getting older and you're becoming a woman, you need to start budgeting for this stuff. Alright? So you're gonna start buying this every month. All right? So like, remember you gotta save some money for this so you can have it.

0 (45m 7s):
And the girls were so excited that they were like, yes, like we're becoming women now. And these are the things that women do. It's because when you have new identity, you have new priorities. And so you've had priorities that are aligned with your old identity, right? There's the you that goes out, the you that drinks the you that does the blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Spends money on shit you shouldn't do. Spends time on shit you shouldn't be spending time on. And there's the you that you want to be. And so right now we can draw the line in the sand and be like, do you want to keep walking down the road that you have been walking? And if you don't, then you have to step into a new identity. And with that new identity comes new priorities. 'cause people who want to be rich spend money on themselves. They spend money on education, they invest in their skill sets because I wanna align my identity with the identity of those who came before me, who've done the things I wanna do, right?

0 (45m 54s):
And just like those little girls stepping into that identity, we too must step into the identity we wanna be. Does that make sense? And so when you're talking to somebody who's trying to lose weight and they're like, I can't afford a gym membership. And you're like, girl, you're spending 200 bucks on your nails and you've got a thousand dollars outfit on. Do you think another thousand dollars outfit would make you look better? Or your high school weight, right? Do you think another thousand outfit would make you look better or be in rich as fuck? And I say that for those of you who are thinking about it on the money side, right? Like you waste money. Like some of you guys have bigger shoe collections than like, it's like fitness, like fitness people and shoes.

0 (46m 36s):
It's like the way like, and Lululemon and the, you know, spandex, it's like a hundreds pieces of band anyways. So it's like your whole wardrobe could be consolidated into a skill that could buy you as many wardrobes as you want if you chose to, right? Okay, rocket, I don't like this certain aspect. This is one of my favorite easiest ones to hit, which is like, you gotta change the change, right? What you have been doing has been getting what you've been getting and you gotta change the change. 'cause like I remember, I would go through meal plans with people and they'd be like, well can we change this? 'cause this is what I eat for breakfast. Can we, can we make that the breakfast? And I'm like, that breakfast makes you look like you, that way you spend your first four hours of the day makes your bank account looks like what it does look like.

0 (47m 25s):
Ooh. Right, right. Taking steps, right? We're getting closer to the truth. And so the thing is, is that it's going to hurt to change 'cause change hurts. And you've heard this one probably from Tony Robinson if you haven't, the question is whether the pain of staying the same is greater than the pain of change. And that's what you just ask someone. And this isn't the help part. If someone's like the pain of staying the same is not worse than this change, it's like then girlfriend like gain 50 more pounds and come back. You know what I mean? Like get there. You know what I mean? Hit rock bottom. This isn't it for you, I'm being real. Some people rock bottom is 12% body fat. Some people it's 500 pounds but everyone's got one.

0 (48m 7s):
You just gotta know where yours is. And all you really gotta do is just move what rock bottom is for you. Which is kind of interesting 'cause you start making a change here, which is kind of interest, like interesting as a thought. But are you in enough pain? Is the question you ask the person? So for those of you who are unwilling to make a change, because it feels contrary to like I don't wanna do, I don't wanna seem salesy, I don't wanna, I don't wanna help people like whatever, right? Like is your current situation more painful than the change that you'll have to go through or experience to get to where you wanna go? And so the last one is hypothetical. I actually really love this. This is a great framework overall for overcoming lots of different obstacles or objections that present themselves. But the hypothetical, and there's lots of ways of phrasing this, which is like, you've probably heard the unicorn close.

0 (48m 47s):
You've probably heard like if this were perfect, would you do it on a scale from one to 10? Where would this program be? If 10 was amazing and one was terrible where you know, where is this? They say a number and you say, cool, what would make it a 10? Why isn't a one? Like you guys heard this scripting before, so you guys are like, no, please talk slower. The reason I said we have to learn the principles behind it, rather than memorizing the script is that it all is based on one thing, which is hypothetical, which is if this were perfect, would you do it? 'cause you get a hypothetical agreement and they say yes if it were per, the thing is if if you're like, if this were perfect, would you do it? If someone says no, then you're like girl, okay, like let's take five steps back. Does my breath smell? Yeah. Because the thing is, is they've actually told you a lot there.

0 (49m 28s):
It's like it has nothing to do with the stuff you're talking about. They don't trust you. And now we can talk about that, right? So it's a great question to frame, like where are we? And so it's like, if this were perfect, would you do it? Sometimes they'll laugh if you ever pour the laugh, say yes, right? And so then you get to flip it and say then what's the difference between perfection and what we've got? And the thing is, is that people are very hard. They don't actually know how to generate making a program 'cause they're not gonna like know all the things you can deliver on the spot, right? And so they're like, most of the time they'll be like, I don't know. And you're like, right, well 'cause it sounds like it's nothing to do with the program, it's all but to do with you. So let's talk about that, right? And then all of a sudden, boom, one step closer to the truth. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah.

0 (50m 7s):
All right. And that's why we do hypotheticals. So if it were perfect, what's missing? And then if you can, if it's, if they do give you an answer and they're like, I just don't want to do broccoli, and you're like, I do green beans, would you do it? They're like, yeah. You're like great green beans, it is sign here. Right? Like some, you would be fucking amazed how many times shit like that happens. It's like one crazy thing. It's like, well if we didn't have that, would you do it? Like, oh yeah, sure. Where were you 10 minutes ago? Right? And that's how you do a hypothetical, okay, we're making, we're making progress still with me, still digging. Okay, cool. Authority, all right, this is one of my favorite fa.

0 (50m 50s):
And so this one, instead of having three, I really just have like one very good statement of reasoning that you should understand. Okay? This is real shit. So this is more of a process than it is anything else. But the spouse or decision maker is not there right now. Note for you guys, a lot of you guys have had the opportunity to go talk to a spouse, but a lot of you guys don't have that in your business, right? Like the spouse ain't there and they leave, they're not coming back, right? Or they are, but very small percentage, don't wait for it. Okay? So what we have to do is try and sidestep it by isolating the objection and casting aside the partner. 'cause the partner's not there. So how could they object to anything? They don't even fucking know who you are, right? And so the idea is, and again this is assuming if you have a really long term thing, then you want the partner to be there, right?

0 (51m 35s):
Like ideally that's what you have. But if you don't have the opportunity, then you gotta go through the next step, right? Which is what do you think they wouldn't like? And then they will tell you and then you just overcome the thing which has nothing to do with the spouse. 'cause spouse isn't there, right? Very easy. Sidestep. Does that make sense? This works really well. It's like why wouldn't they? Well it's like well 'cause they don't want me to fail. Ooh, they don't want you to fail. Let's talk about you. And so this is the process that I walked through. Do they approve of your current struggle? They happy that you're struggling? No. Okay, then why would they not approve of something that's gonna fix something they already don't approve of they right.

0 (52m 16s):
They're not happy with how you're currently doing. Why would they be against something that's already making them unhappy? Right? Right. Well let me ask you this and then pause. Look, if the rules were reversed and your husband needed this to make what he wants, his dreams happen, or your wife needed this program to make her dreams happen, would you support her? Then why wouldn't you support you? Right? Right. And I think the real problem that we're dealing with here, and this is the kicker, this is for everybody, is that you're asking for permission instead of support because it is your life not theirs.

0 (52m 56s):
And what happens is if you give that power to them and then two years from now you're still fat, you're still poor, whatever it is, who are you gonna blame them? And so that's when you have a resentful marriage because you didn't own your shit. And so I'm not saying you shouldn't like explain the decision to them, but what the way you explain it to them is what I just said. Which is, if I don't do this for me, I'm going to end up resenting you and I don't want that. And instead of me bitching to you every day about how we don't have money or about how I don't like my body, I'm now doing this and I'm enjoying a group of support of community of people just like me. And crazy enough, for some reason doctors go to college, right?

0 (53m 39s):
Right. That makes sense. They go to medical school lawyers go to law school. But where do entrepreneurs go? There's no entrepreneur school, no one teaches this stuff. But it turns out there are people who teach it just for this specific industry. And I can take failures of a thousand people and pack it into a year and it's one 10th the price of a four year degree, right? And so instead of winding to you, what I commit to is I'm gonna show up and be a better husband, a better wife, a better partner. I'm not gonna bitch to you about this stuff because I'm gonna take this seriously. I'm gonna go all in and I'm not asking you permission, I'm just asking for your support. Alright? That's how you can overcome it because I'm gonna be real with you. It is about them. And you have to believe that.

0 (54m 19s):
Like you can't say this unless you believe it because like you will, you save marriages by showing people that they're the ones in control. Because if they keep saying, my husband's not gonna let me buy a weight loss program, what do you think she's secretly saying, can't believe you won't let me do it, right? If that's real, if she's using it as a foil, you sidestep, you get to self, right? But that might be the real thing. And if that is the thing, then you have to let them step into that. And that's where, you know, having, that's where like having a three day no spot guarantee or something like that is also helpful. It's like, hey, sign up. And I use, I use a lot of rapport and humor in my selling. And so I'd be like, Hey Cindy, if you sign up and you tell your husband and he's upset you have, and, and when, when he sees you, he's like, girl, I don't want you to get in shape, I want you to stay overweight.

0 (55m 9s):
I want you to put those sweatpants on. I want you to sit on that couch, reach your hand and bag of Cheetos, put the the Cheetos fingers on there. I want you to create generational unhealth. I want you to live 10 years less long. I want you to see our grandkids. I don't want that, right? I wanna marry a younger, better you sooner because you're gonna have a heart attack. If he says that to you, you have him call me and then they're like cracking up and you're like, okay, okay listen, sign up three day, no sweat. Like if he, if he does tell you that he just wants you to be outta shape and never leave him because, because he doesn't want you to get too hot. He's insecure if he says that. Yeah, just lemme know. Alright, so like the whole time, you're just joking and stuff, but the three day guarantee helps like nudge a lot of these people over. Is that cool? You guys get that one?

0 (55m 49s):
Yes. Okay, sweet. And so that goes for you, right? Like it's, it's about support, not permission. That's the bottom line, right? Support, not permission. 'cause otherwise you're gonna blame them for your lack of dreams being realized rather than blaming the person that should, which is you. All right? So this is avoidance. Now we're getting to the core. We've gotten rid of time, we know that you've got time. And the best time to do it is today because you're gonna be busy forever. Right? Value. We know that you can't afford it. If you can't afford it, you'll buy it. If you can't afford it, it's a great reason to to do it. And if the value's there, then there's no reason not to do it. 'cause it'll pay for itself, right? And what's money good for anyways?

0 (56m 29s):
You're gonna pay for the program regardless. You wanna pay in less time or more time. Value's not a problem fit. You gotta step into new identity, right? You've got to be willing to change. And the question is just whether the pain that you're experiencing is less than the pain of the change that it takes to experience the next thing, right? If they step into that, they're good because it's not about resources, it's about resourcefulness. So if it's not an issue, authority, they have to own it. It's about support, not permission. We all hear, do you feel like we've peeled the layers back on your prospects? Yes. And they're just laid bare naked. There just, you've solicited the sale, now you gotta close. All right, avoidance.

0 (57m 11s):
So now they're like, wait, what? Need to think about it. So now that we've exhausted, I'm putting this as emphasis, we've exhausted all outside reasons, now we are finally talking to someone in power. And that is what a good coach does. We don't make decisions for people, we help them make decisions. So here is an, I have to think about it. Not sure gimme a hand who's dealt with somebody who just thinks that way? Alright? At least one person here. No, I'm kidding. All you guys did. You guys are great. So this is how I divide this up, past, present, future. And so hopefully this should already before I, I dive into these, give you simple frameworks to work through time. You've got macro, micro when then, right? You've got, you've got value. You're thinking about it's not a lot of money.

0 (57m 52s):
Even if it were a lot of money, it's not a lot of money. You're gonna pay for it either way. But you, you have the simple frameworks that you can walk through. You might just hit 'em with one. And if they hit it with, again, hit 'em at the other angle because they're logical frameworks. They're not scripts. That's why I made 'em bubbles. You don't have to memorize it, just gotta understand it past. So like I need to think about it. And so the thing is is, and this the first bubble there is, if someone's like, I feel like this is happening so fast and we're gonna get that one. Like I just, I just got on the phone with you, I don't really know who you are. And you're like, hey, this is not a fast decision, right? You've been making the decision for the last six years. You continually make the decision. All we're doing to say is deciding you're actually gonna do something about it, right? How long you wanted to lose weight? A long time. So this is not a fast decision at all. But the thing is, is that, and this is where you go sunk cost.

0 (58m 34s):
So if I were talking to you guys, I would say you find, you know you bought tickets 'cause you saw some ad, you registered there, you got your flights, you got a hotel, you blocked the time you flew here, you listened to this whole thing, you're six inches from gold. This isn't a fast decision at all. You did all these things to get here because it's important to you. So don't let that distortion stop you from getting what you want, right? It's fear, right? Let's face that. What are you afraid of having happen? Which by the way, I took the slide out, but my two favorite questions to ask in a, in a sale that I feel like are the fastest to cut through is what are you most afraid of having happen If you buy, what are you most afraid of?

0 (59m 16s):
What's the worst thing that you envision in your mind? And if they're not sure, I just fill in the blanks. I'm like, I take your credit card, I swipe it for as much as I possibly can. I go to Vegas, I put it all on black and then I go to Monaco where they can't extradite me, fair enough. And they're like, I was not thinking that. And you're like, right, so what's the worst? You know, like what's, what's the real thing? They're like and then they're like, you know, I just haven't bought so many programs before. You're like right, let's talk about that. Right? And so I'm gonna skip one forward and then I'm gonna go back to it. This is one of my favorite obstacle or objection overcomes. It's I called Don't let it burn you twice. And this literally, you can see the date it happened yesterday. This girl texted me or or missed April 6th. She said, it's crazy to think that I had a sales call with you six years ago and I'm kicking myself in the butt from not jumping on.

0 (1h 0m 1s):
This is yesterday, right? Like I don't even own the company anymore. And I said, you let a bad decision burn you twice once when you made your poor investment. But a second time when you let that bad investment stop you from a good investment, it would be like anybody ever have a boyfriend or girlfriend in middle school or high school that they're not currently married to anyone? Just like, just come on, help me out here. Okay? It would be like having a bad eighth grade boyfriend or girlfriend and being like, you know what? Men aren't for me. All coaches suck, right? There's good coaches, there's bad coaches, there's crazy ass bitches and there's crazy ass dudes. You know what I mean? Like there's also good ones. And so things, if you stop, if you let the bad one prevent you from the good one, you get burned by being with the bad one.

0 (1h 0m 46s):
And because you let the bad one control your next decision, right? And so when someone has had a bad experience with doing keto, wherever the fuck, right? Where you had a bad experience with some program that you did or did not do or they didn't fulfill whatever, either way, don't let that burn you twice. Because no matter what you're gonna have to do, you're gonna have to do these actions whether you're part of the program or not. You gotta do these workouts, whether you're part of the program or not, doesn't matter. You're gonna have to do it. So you might as well do it, but somebody's gonna get you there faster, right? Lemme go back one real quick. So it's not a fast decision and this is another one that I love, which is, do you think that you're maybe in this position because you have struggled to make a decision in the past, you have waffled when it came time to make, to make the hard call, have you been in this conversation and said no before?

0 (1h 1m 31s):
Yeah. Do you think that's why you're here? Yeah. Do you think that might be the reason you should change that? Yeah. Okay, let's change it. One decision change your life. And the last one is like, are you tired of another year of almost right tired another year of almost hitting your goals of almost getting to 10 KA month of, of almost, you know, hiring the team that you wanted of almost retiring your, your wife or husband or almost moving into the neighborhood that you wanted to move into. Or almost being able to pay for your kids recreational sports rather than not being able to 'cause you can't afford it or you're tired of another year of almost. Well if you're tired of another year almost, then we can't do what we're doing to get here for another year 'cause we're gonna get another year almost. And so the question isn't what it cost you, but how much has it cost you to not decide up to this point, right?

0 (1h 2m 16s):
The cost of inaction. And I think that when we think about our lives in reverse, we never regret the things that we did. We regret the things we didn't do, the opportunities that we let pass by. And I think that if you can let that person step into that power, they'll make the decision to help themselves. Like this person did not alright present. So depends on who you're talking to. If someone's talking about past stuff, then you do with the past stuff. The second frame for avoidance is present, which is they just don't know how to make a fucking decision, right? And so you have to help them make a decision. And so this one, the rocking chair is one that I just for some reason have used a tremendous amount of time, especially when I was selling weight loss, is you'd be like, I just really, really need to think about it. Like totally understand.

0 (1h 2m 57s):
Well let's walk through like what that looks like. You're not gonna like go home, sit in the rocking chair, you know, smoke a cigarette because of course you're not healthy yet, right? You'll quit when you're healthy, right? You're smoking your cigarette and you're like, Hmm, am I gonna do this weight loss program, right? You're just sit there and just stare in the clouds. Like I wonder. No, of course, no, you're get in your car and then you're gonna realize you gotta pick up Timmy from soccer practice, you gotta get groceries, you gotta cook, you gotta clean, you gotta pick up, you know, go do laundry, gotta do all these things, right? And then three, four or five days from now you're gonna put on that old pair of jeans and it's not gonna fit. And you'll be like, fuck. And just there, you'll have made the decision, you'll keep living your life. And so let's just make it now. Because the reality is that it doesn't take information today. Make decisions. Sorry, it doesn't take time to make decisions.

0 (1h 3m 37s):
It takes information and I'm the only source of information you got. So let's talk. I'm here, I'm here for you. Let's do it. Right? Because that's the fallacy is that people think they need more time to make decisions because they assume they'll get more information in that time. But if you are the source of the information, then time does not help them. And so let's confront it now and let me answer the questions. You have to make the decision one way or another. Does that make sense? Yeah. All right. And so then they're like, well then fuck, how do I make a decision? You're like, glad you asked. So there's three things that we gotta understand. Do you believe that this product or service is going to help you achieve what you want? Yes or no?

0 (1h 4m 17s):
They're gonna say yes, right? If they don't, you can confront it. Note, all of these are confronting decisions. So we've moved all the way down the onion, right? We're at truth now and all like the theme of the of the last bullet is confrontation. We have to confront the decision. We gotta peel it back and be like, are we gonna do this or not? Right? Because we've already got out the time, we got out the fit, we got out the, we got everything outta the way. It's just you. Do you think that this is gonna help you get closer to your goals? Yes or no? Two, do you trust me to fill, to fulfill my word that I said I'm gonna help you. I'm gonna do these calls, I'm gonna do these workouts, I'm gonna do whatever, right? Three, this is the mo, probably the most important one. Do you think it'll work for you?

0 (1h 4m 57s):
And if they say no, you say why not? And then they have to defend. Why not? And then it's very easy at that point it's a six inch putt, alright? And once they say yes to all three, which is usually what will happen, they're like, cool, we'll make the decision together. Do you know how to make the decision? They'll say no. You go through the three. And the last question is, they said yes, yes, yes. It's just do you have or have access to the amount of money to get started? Do you have the Amex? Do you want me to help you enroll in an Amex because I want to, I wanna help you. I'm good either way. But if you believe that this is gonna help you get closer, you believe that what I'm saying is true and you believe that you can be successful, it's my moral obligation to get you going and do everything in my power to help you get the money or get access to it. Because the real world is, if I was giving you a Ferrari right now for $5,000, you'd find the money.

0 (1h 5m 39s):
If your landlord needed you to come up with $10,000 'cause you had background in payroll, you'd find the money. So find the money. Let's do it. Right? Three, who wants to make informed decisions? Yes. How can you make an informed decision if you haven't even tried it? Huh? So this is when you have some element of trial in the program or some sort of guarantee, which is why I'm a big fan of guarantees. It's like, well you can't make the decision to buy that's informed until you're on the inside that I'm not even asking you to make a decision right now. I'm just asking you making an informed decision, which you can only do on the inside. And if after 30 days I'm not what I said this product doesn't do what I told you, I didn't fulfill my promise and you don't think it's gonna work for you, you let me know, I'll give you the money back.

0 (1h 6m 24s):
Low pressure, you get someone to decide by not deciding even easier. Does that make sense? Yeah. I think that'll help you close. Yeah. Alright. And then this one is, it depends on who you're selling to, but sometimes if you have a logical person, it's like, do you know what deciding even means? Like where the etymology of the work comes from? It's D re, which is ladin, which means to cut off, to kill off. And so the question is, which future we killing off today? Are we killing off the future of the dreams that you want? Are we killing off the future? Sorry, are we killing off the future of of not doing anything and the life that you've lived up to this point?

0 (1h 7m 6s):
Because indecision is a decision. Inaction is an active decision, right? And so it's just which one are we killing today? We killing your dreams or are we killing your past? Second to last one future. So we talked about past. So if they're thinking about the past, the things that hurt them, don't let it burn you twice, et cetera, right? They don't know how to make a decision. Rocking chair, this is how you make a decision. Three things, you have access to money, great, let's get going. You wanna kill your past, you wanna kill your future, right? Awesome. We're talking about the future. This is actually magnifying pain, which is cool. You got here, it's been five years, you've been struggling. How's another five years sound? What if we just keep doing, let's go with indecision, let's look at it. What does five years that you doing, what you've been doing look like?

0 (1h 7m 47s):
And is that a place you wanna be? No, you gotta change the change. Let's do it. Right? And then you go right into, let's consider the options, which is like the, like this is logic, right? So let's consider the options option one, you do the thing, you get the result, life is awesome. Option two, you don't do the thing, you don't get the result because you didn't do the thing. Option three, you do the thing but then you don't get the result. All these are the options that can happen in front of you because we have a guarantee they're all risk free except for one of them. Only one of them has a true guarantee of not getting you where you want, which is walking out the door. So which risk free option do you want?

0 (1h 8m 28s):
The one that's risk free that guarantees that you're not gonna get there. Or the one that's risk free and has the potential to get you where you want to go, wanna go, right? That's not an emotional close. It's logic. And if you have an offer that's set up that way, you should be able to close most people as long as they don't think you're an asshole, right? Okay. This is one that's more around urgency. 'cause again, this is avoidance. If someone says, I, I'm still not sure I wanna think about it more, whatever you say, well you're not gonna struggle forever, right? Like you don't want to struggle forever. You're gonna do something about this, whether it's weight loss business, whatever. They're gonna say yes. You're like, well if you're gonna fix your business eventually you might as well start fixing it now so you can start enjoying the fruits of that labor sooner.

0 (1h 9m 11s):
Would you prefer making more money faster or slower? What's your preference? Great. So if you're gonna do it eventually, you might as well do it now. Does that make sense? It's a little nudge. This is a final one that I just really like from a framing perspective, which is instead of a like this has to be my savior, this program has to get me to an IFBB pro bikini body and I'm a hundred pounds overweight. Probably not realistic, right? Reframe The question is, do you think that making the decision is gonna be help you get closer or further from your goal? That's it. Because if we keep making decisions that keep getting us closer, we will get there eventually. But if we make decisions that get us further away, we will not get there.

0 (1h 9m 52s):
And so do you think that this is gonna get you closer to your goal than what you're currently doing? Yes. What are we waiting for? We don't need to be snipers, we need to be directionally right? If we do that long enough, we'll get there. Does that make sense? Yeah, that helps you too because we have this fear of perfectionism. Is this gonna be the one? Probably not. But it will get you fucking way closer, right? Because I can tell you there's no one program that changed my life, but the, the decision to buy education changed my life forever. Does that make sense? Yeah. Alright. Boom. And so lemme, lemme look at the top, we have no reasons left not to own the power that you have. It's just you. All right? And here's bonus number six.

0 (1h 10m 33s):
And you can use this as one of like, there's some closes that you use all the time. You always go back to right? The reason you are telling yourself not to do this is the reason you need do it. How long do you want? I can't afford this to be on your list of problems in life. The fact that you don't have time is the very reason you need to do this. The fact that you're so dependent on your spouse is the reason you need to take this decision and own it, right? The fact that you're not sure about the person that you wanna be is the very reason that we're gonna help you get it in this program. So whatever the reason is, is usually the biggest chain that you're holding onto is the thing that you're enslaving yourself to, is the thing that you're casting your power to. And if you break that chain, power comes back to you. And so the very reason that you're holding yourself back is typically the very reason that you need to do it.

0 (1h 11m 16s):
So hopefully this helps you realize that you and your clients are always in complete power. Did I accomplish that? Yes. Awesome.

2 (1h 11m 24s):
Thank you.

0 (1h 11m 30s):
And like I promised at the beginning, my hope is that you become more powerful by making decisions rather than letting life make them for you. All right? So here's a few final thoughts. Fortunes are created by taking a lot of risk with a little bit of money. Fortunes are maintained by taking a little bit of risk with a lot of money. And every one of those people that was self-made takes a lot of risk with a little bit of money. And sometimes you need to take that step because it's the only way to build the fortune, alright? And if everything that I've ever made in my life, or sorry, everything that I've made in my life is a result of investing in my own education. It has gotten me far higher returns than any stock, any real estate, any crypto, right? Any whatever.

0 (1h 12m 11s):
Buy a mile. And people say like, it's all about investing yourself. Like I just, I think it sounds amorphous, it's like buy experience and skills because no government can take that from you. No divorce can take that from you. Nothing can take that from you. And I come from a family where, so we're we're Persian and so my, my parents had to flee Iran during the revolution. And so they had land and houses and other stuff, right? And my uncle was the brother to a guy who started the lottery in Iran. He owned the lottery. 'cause you can do that there, right?

0 (1h 12m 51s):
Very rich. And so my dad and him, he went to London, my dad went to the us he had no skills and he was able to just forge enough money to buy a print shop. And he lives above the print shop in London and still to this day that's what he does. And went to visit him. It was incredibly sad seeing just like what? Once, once a incre and his wife, my dad gave her a scarf and it was like a nice scarf apparently. And she just bled. She's like, I used to have rooms of these and now I have nothing and blah blah blah blah, right? My dad came to the United States with a thousand dollars but because he had skills, he built it off from scratch. And so I mean he was a doctor as all Middle Eastern and Indians are, right?

0 (1h 13m 35s):
Doctor, lawyer, account engineer. Anyways, the only four proof paths. But when we say invest in that, we come from a place where like it was literally all taken. The government was like, that's our house now that's our land. Now that bank account is our bank account now. And so that was why it was so, and like that might be a benefit for me. I had somebody who was always like, it's the only thing no one can take from you. And so why would you not invest in the one thing that can never be stolen, can never be taken and compounds with time and it increases your capacity to make money, increases your capacity to live. And so I like to think of the investments that I've made in myself as bricks on a bridge.

0 (1h 14m 16s):
And so if I'm on the bottom left here and where I want to be is the top right-ish, right? Looking like the nightmare before Christmas. Now you're going like there are many skills that it takes to cross the bridge, right? And just like you have an arithmetic teacher in high school, once you learn calculus, you're not like that guy was a load of shit. Calculus is what? No. You have to learn things in sequence, right? And so the thing is, is that we build this bridge, it's one brick at a time. And I always come back to the same question which is, is this going to get me closer to where I want to go? I don't need it to get me there. I just need to get closer and if I get better, I'll get there eventually, right? As long as I don't stop moving.

0 (1h 14m 56s):
And so that's why, that's what I've dedicated my life to education. My mission is to document and share the best practice of building worldclass companies. Because when you realize that you are the source, you realize that superman is not coming. It's just you. And every decision that you make is a vote towards or against the person that we want to be. And so the question for you is that, are your decisions voting towards the person that you wanna become or just more of what you already have? And so people ask me all the time, how do you move so quickly? And the answer is, I know how to buy time. And the follow up question is, how do you buy time? You buy time by buying the time took other people to make mistakes that taught them the lessons. That's how you do it, right? That's, that's the heck.

0 (1h 15m 37s):
And so right now the ignorance of not knowing how to create a million dollars a year is costing you a million dollars a year. The fact that you don't know how to make a million dollars a year is costing you a million dollars a year. Think about it, right? And so therefore you should always be willing to invest money to increase the capacity for your income because once you have it, that capacity pays you forever. You're increasing your ability. Does that make sense? We're widening the pipe. And so when I thought about this, I just added zeros to it and I was like, it's fucking costing me a billion dollars a year not knowing how to make a billion dollars God, right? But it's true because the thing, the number one tax that no one appreciates or no one respects is not the tax of the government.

0 (1h 16m 20s):
It's not capital gains, it's not income tax, it's the time tax of ignorance. Someone asked Layla yesterday, what's the number one thing that people from zero to 10 K are messing up? You don't know what the fuck you're doing. That's what's messing you up. You're ignorant. You have no idea you're eating an orange like an apple. No clue, right? And it's not because you don't have the processing power, it's not because you don't have the ability to reason it's 'cause you just don't know. And so the goal is to pay down the time tax of ignorance as fast as humanly possible. And the only way you do that is by educating and investing yourself, right? Specifically investing in experiences that build skills.

0 (1h 17m 1s):
So make the decisions that to help yourself implement like crazy, take ownership because we just discovered that all the other shit is not real is literally a distortion of reality. That anything that you give your power to that's not you is fake. You're making it a false god in your life and your prospects are too. And you now you know how to confront those when your mind tries to play tricks on you and realize that there are no silver bullets, no program is gonna save your life, alright? But some things can move you closer to your goals. And when those rare opportunities present themselves, take them all right? Because either you win or you learn. And both of those get you closer to wherever you want to go all.

0 (1h 17m 43s):
And so I'll wrap up with this. 10 years ago I had to, that was me in a swanky, you know, when I was a consultant looking cool, it was actually after, I don't even have a good picture when I was a consultant, but there's me in a suit and I, I knew I hated the job that I had. I made okay money, but I just like, I just really wasn't happy. And I emailed 40 gym owners and I was like, Hey, I think I wanna get in fitness. Can somebody like help me out? One guy was like, sure you can work for free. I was like awesome. And that guy was sand back and anybody you know who's samba is raise hand.

0 (1h 18m 25s):
Geez, okay, well seven figure Sam is what he used to be known as. He actually died during Covid, which was really sad for me 'cause I really looked up to Sam. And the thing is, is that when I got to his office, I literally drove across the country from Baltimore to LA or Chino Hills, which is where he was. And I showed up without notice and he was like, you're a psychopath, I just met you from the internet. And I was like, I'm here. I'm ready to learn. He was like, I'm going to lunch. And, but right after he came back from lunch he was like, alright, so you should join my, my mastermind. And I was like, I don't have a gym. And he was like, that's okay. It was a gym mastermind. And I didn't, I mean like I was 22, like I did not have a lot of money.

0 (1h 19m 10s):
And he was like, well it's 10 grand. And I was like, I, I don't know. And he's like, you need to fucking commit man. He's like, you've been waffling back and forth. I had had multiple phone calls with him before I left. He's like, I think you need to draw a line in the sand. And thank he got, you know, thank God he did. 'cause I did take a step over, I had no idea what the fuck I was doing, but I was trying to start paying down the time tax of ignorance. And I got around a whole bunch of other fitness professionals and I learned way more from all of them than I ever learned from Sam. But because of that, my belief started to change the ways I saw the world change, the traits. I started to embody change and started taking steps. The mastermind I got from Sam is not what made me a hundred million dollars, but it got me on the right path towards making it.

0 (1h 19m 54s):
Over the years of having hundreds of salespeople work for me, I've seen these nine things that the best salespeople do differently than everyone else. And so if you boil it down, a salesperson has three jobs to do. They have to maximize the number of opportunities they have, they have to convert the highest percentage of those opportunities. And, and this is the important part, they have to do it consistently for a very long period of time. And so the nine things they do differently will fall elegantly into each of these three buckets. Let's start with the first one, which is maximizing leads or maximizing the number of opportunities that a salesman has. So right off the top, I've never seen a salesperson who does the most in a company have the lowest amount of hours worked. I've yet to have it. You know what?

0 (1h 20m 34s):
Maybe there's a special snowflake out there, but every company that I've owned and every company that I've looked at, the guy who works the most hours is the one who sells the most deals. And so maximizing opportunities comes in a number of different forms. So number one is that they have the total most hours available per day because you should be available when the prospect is available. And that means sometimes working long hours, it sometimes mean working weekends. And yes, businesses also pay rent on Sundays. And so you can make sales on Sundays. So my software company Alan scheduled 4,000 plus appointments per day across a number of different industries. And so we got to see all the way from click to close, which companies were selling the most people. And we looked at all the different data.

0 (1h 21m 14s):
So times of day, number of days per week, you know, speed between text responses, number of characters and text response, all of these different variables. 'cause I had two data analysts that looked at this to figure out how could he maximize throughput for any business. And obviously sales is a big component of that. And the single greatest lever on throughput across all companies was the number of total available time slots, which means availability, which the strongest predictor of total sales. And lemme give you a tactical example of this. When Layla and I were traveling the other day, we went to a different city and she wanted to get her nails done or something. And so she just pulled up Yelp and looked at the one that had the top reviews, called them up and they said, oh, I'm sorry, we don't do same day appointments.

0 (1h 21m 57s):
And they're like, we can book you in for two days from now. And she was like, yep, don't care. Call the next one. Same thing. Call the third one. And then they were like, yeah, we can take you right now. And boom, she went in. And the thing is, is that both of those other business owners, the first two business owners that said no lost money, and the next time she comes to that place, she'll probably go back to the one that she went to as long as they did a good job. And so trying to be egotistical about it rather than accommodate customers, it's like, well, we're so great, you just lose money Now if we maximize the total number of time that's available for the salesperson to sell, then the next part of maximizing their opportunities is getting as much of their days humanly possible filled with the best opportunities. And so the second subunit of this is They will pull up calls.

0 (1h 22m 42s):
And so the first thing is if you see a call that gets booked or you book a call that's on Thursday and today's Monday, if you have a time slot that's open, you grab your Thursday appointment, you drag it into today because today appointments always have higher show up rates. And if you pull it up, then they're even more interested and you can close even higher and you could have two or three calls by that same Thursday time. So you increase your sales velocity. Now a corollary to that is if you look at your calendar and you've reached out to a prospect and that person has not responded back and now it's the same day and they're coming up in a few hours, well what do you do? Well the best salespeople pull that time slot and say, Hey, sorry, I didn't see that you confirmed, why don't we do the same thing for tomorrow? And you can push it out one and then try and fill that time slot with somebody who is responsive even if they're later in the week.

0 (1h 23m 25s):
And that increases your total number of calls per day. And so fundamentally the perfect day for a salesperson is that they have call back to back to back to back to back with the best possible leads that are the hottest. That day I learned that little tactic about pulling up because we had one of our companies, it was in solar sales and they had one rep that massively outperformed everyone else. And I was like, what is this guy doing? And so what he was doing was he would, whenever a new appointment would book, he would immediately call the the appointment to qualify the lead. 'cause that checks two boxes. One is he says, okay, is this person qualified to buy? If the person was, he had two decision paths. If they had the time right then he would just go straight into closing 'cause he was in an off the call SOP. And then by getting in contact with the lead became on the call in terms of his SOP.

0 (1h 24m 8s):
And if they said they had time right now he just went for the sale that maximizes his time on call. If they said no, then the reason for his call was that he had an opening later that day that he was trying to fill up. And so he either takes the moment now that he's working the lead and turns it into a sales call or he fills another slot later in the day and turns that into a sales call. Both of those things maximize the number of sales that guy was having. And this guy was selling like four times more units than the second best guy on the team. And then they obviously saw this and then adopted it company wide. And then of course I saw it and adopted it across all my entire portfolio. And let me double down on why that's so powerful because not only does the salesman have two opportunities to sell now or later that day, he also opens up the slot later in the week for availability for another customer that can't make it today to book that time.

0 (1h 24m 52s):
Then, because what I have found, and we saw this with the software, was if you have fewer time slots, people may still book with you but they're not booking at the most convenient time for them. You'll see schedule rates, but then show rates will drop because it's not the time that works for them ideally. And so you wanna make it the most accommodating. So it's not just art, is it convenient or inconvenient? It's how convenient is it? If I have a a tight deadline and a hard stop and I've got something that I'm stressed about afterwards, I might be able to schedule a call then, but I might not be in a in the mood to buy. But if I say, you know what, Sunday afternoon I'm free. I'll have all the time in my world, I'm gonna have zero urgency to get off the call. I'll listen to you and I'll be in a completely different zone. And that might be when I'm in receiving hands in terms of prospect rain mode for buying.

0 (1h 25m 36s):
And so one of the things that the best salespeople have, and this is something that companies should provide but often don't, is that you have two SOPs, meaning standard operating procedures. You have an on the call SOP, which is what you say when you're talking to prospects and they have an off the call SOP, which is what you do in between the vast majority of companies don't have an off the call SOP, and they're losing tons and tons of money because they just say, yeah, just work the leads in the meantime when the total amount of output that a salesman has is so correlated with the amount of opportunities they have, and they get those opportunities by the time they have when they're not on the call. And so they should have two separate checklists if they don't have them in front of them. And this is what the best salespeople do is this is what I'm doing when I'm on and this is what I'm doing when I'm off.

0 (1h 26m 18s):
And you can just switch hats as soon as you're off and you start at the top and you're like, I'm following with this person, I'm following with this person. I'm dragging this person forward, I'm canceling this appointment and they have high activity. One of the things that we do across all our companies, and I learned this acronym from my friend Sharan Bamfam, which is book a meeting from a meeting, which is that the best salespeople never finish a call with a prospect not knowing when the next time they're gonna talk to the prospect. So that prospect should never fall into no man's lane. They should never fall between the cracks where they're like, I don't know. And so if you get to the end of the call and they're like, yeah, let's connect offline and we'll, you know, we'll circle back up and we'll find another time. No, you have to address it at that time because if for whatever reason, like a time obstacle is still an obstacle and you can resolve it right then you both have your calendars up, you can both make the decision.

0 (1h 27m 2s):
If someone's like, well, I'm not sure, then you actually address the concern like, isn't this a problem for you? How much are you losing every day not implementing this solution in your business? How much, like how much of a problem is this in your life and why isn't it this something that we'd be doing sooner, right? And so you wanna address those things because that is, these are obstacles. And so if you just get off the call jolly, then you actually lose more sales. So you always book a meeting from the meeting. Here's three more things that the best salespeople will do. Number one is that they don't take rejection personally because they're going to reach out in more volume than the mediocre salespeople. And so you can see on A CRM how many outreach attempts and how many follow up attempts that a salesperson is having between calls and it correlates with the number of calls that they take.

0 (1h 27m 45s):
And so they work their leads harder. And that's because if someone before they've scheduled a call, you know, says something mean, they're not like, oh my gosh, I can't believe this. Or if someone no shows, they're not like, well I'm not gonna work the rest of my leads. No one really cares about me, like woe is me. It's no, they know it's a numbers game and they just keep plowing. Something that I've noticed the best salespeople do is they have something called a kill list. And so those are those prospects that you're like, this is a whale or this is a really good prospect and they, they sure they have 'em, the C rmm, sure they have them in the place that they're supposed to have them, but they also have it somewhere else that's visible so they can always think about it and like that's like an everyday list. It's like, I gotta get back to these two guys. I gotta make sure that these ones I'm gonna put extra attention to because they're high value deals.

0 (1h 28m 27s):
Now the last element of what the best salespeople do for increasing their number of leads is that they create their own opportunities. So sure they're gonna get the inbound leads from marketing, they're gonna get the people, you know, the leads that are handed to them. But the best salespeople know the value of referrals. And so the way they do that is at the end of the call or at the time that it makes sense, they say, Hey, do you know anybody else? Or my favorite way of asking is who do you know? Because it forces the prospect to answer the question with a not yes no, but with a name. You say, who do you know who is as awesome as you? Now it's a compliment Who would also benefit from this? So now I'm giving them a compliment by by, by asking them for the referrals. I kind of like have a like a nice guy sandwich there.

0 (1h 29m 9s):
So like you're amazing. Who else do you know who's like you? Who would love to do this with you or with us? Who could benefit from X, Y, Z? Right? Now? Sometimes if they say no one, then sometimes like this is where rapport's important. But you could say something like, why do you hate me so much? And they're like, what do you mean? It's like, well, I only can assume that you hate us because you don't want anybody else to know about this amazing thing and you probably hate your friends because you want them to suffer as well, right? And if it's because you don't believe me, then let's talk about that. But otherwise, like why are we not getting your friends in here? Because I can promise you you'll be far more successful if you have more people you know who are in it. So in the spirit of Bam Fanm book a meeting from a meeting, if we consider this to be a meeting, if you would like us to help you more with your sales process, Acquisition dot com just started a workshop division where my sales director, my team, will talk to you specifically about your sales, your process, your scripting, so we can implement some of the things that we know work in our portfolio into your business.

0 (1h 29m 60s):
ASAP. We do other stuff at the workshop, but we also talk about sales. If that's at all interesting. You can book your next meeting by code Acquisition dot go clicking the scale button and following the steps. And if you're qualified, my guys will reach out. When I had a team in a different portfolio company, we had one guy who was outperforming everyone else by a huge margin. This one wasn't as big as the pull up thing that was massive. This was about 50% higher than the number number two guy. And we were like, what is this guy doing? He was brand new. And that was what was interesting is like brand new going to the top leaderboards not very common. 'cause that means that they're doing a different process, right? And so he was following the script and we listened to the calls, we're like, this is the same call. And so we, when we called him up, we said, what are you doing differently? And the thing is, is he was multiplying his leads.

0 (1h 30m 40s):
And so what he did was at the end of the calls, he was just asking who they knew who would also benefit from this thing. And I think they were, they were selling some sort of tickets of some sort. And so he was saying, who else wants to come with you? Who else would you like to bring? And it's just a simple little thing that he was doing. But by doing that, he was increasing his sales by 50% because the referrals, even though only one outta three or one out of four people would refer the referral close rates like 80 or 90%. And so if you think, okay, I take, you know, four calls and I close one and I ask for referrals in all, all four. And only one of them gives me a referral. But then that referral then closes, then I take my one sale out of four and turn it to two out of five.

0 (1h 31m 24s):
If you're a business owner, thinking about how valuable, just implementing that is consistently is that your cost to acquire a customer, you just, you cut in half by taking one customer and getting a referral from that customer. And if one out of three customers refer someone, then you cut your cost to acquire a customer to buy a third. And this is the type of stuff as advertising becomes more expensive 'cause it always will become more expensive that the businesses that do this, the salesmen that do this will be the ones that win in the future. So now we have a salesman who has the maximum number of hours, the maximum number of days, they're pulling up appointments so that their time on call closing with the best people is maximized. They're following up before they're following up, after they're giving personalized reach outs and saying like, Hey voice memo.

0 (1h 32m 4s):
Hey video. Hey, I've got this thing for you that I've got set up for the call. What size shirt do you want? I've set aside a thing here. There's one of the things we did at the gym. Hey, what color shirt do you want? Hey, what boxing gloves. Hey, what you do a tiny little thing. Hey, I've got three gift cards here. I got one for Amazon, one for Starbucks, and one for whatever. Which one would you prefer? Right? You ask a preference question prior to the call and more people show because the thing is, is you're like, well shoot, this guy's doing this thing, the least I can do is show up. And so they're maximizing the number of scheduled appointments, they're maximizing the number of shows, they're maximizing the number of opportunities they're getting from those opportunities. And now we get to the call. So now we gotta close understand the value of preparation.

0 (1h 32m 49s):
You would be amazed at how much of a genius you sound like if you just do five minutes of research before a call. And so my rule of thumb for research is that if it's something that you do all the time, it's about 10% of the time that you're gonna be on a call or meeting that you can do in prep. So if you have a two hour call, then you've got 12 minutes of prep. If you've got a 60 minute call, then you do six minutes of prep. Now this is something that if you do it all the time, if this is like I'm doing a quarterly meeting, then it reverses. It's like six hours of prep for one hour of presentation if it's something that you don't do often. And so salespeople do the same call over and over again. But the thing that's different, the tiny bit of difference is the prospect they're speaking with. And so like this applies to everything.

0 (1h 33m 29s):
Like if you're picking a girl up at our house, if you do five seconds of research in the car before you go in and you look at what her dad does and look at the company of the, of the father and say, Hey, so Mr. So-and-so really nice to meet you. So I see you work at, you know, whatever engineering, like do you like that stuff? I see that they just had a a press release coming out. Do you have any involvement in that? This guy would immediately see you no matter how you're dressed, what you look like as it's a, it's a check. They're like whoa. Like I will respect this person because he did me the honor of actually taking some time to look me up and figure out more about my business. He didn't show up like everybody else does. Not knowing which way is Sunday trying to figure things out as they go. I'm telling you, the best salespeople take those five minutes, they do that tiny bit of research and the amount of rapport that you build in that first one minute from having those secrets, the person is then like, oh wow, they know about me.

0 (1h 34m 22s):
Think about what it takes to close someone know, like, and trust. Well all of a sudden you feel known because they did it. You like people who know more about you and what else do you do? You trust people who know more about you because you approximate friendship, you approximate a relationship and you do. And you get to do a ton of that at the first second of the call rather than taking the five first minutes of the call to show that you don't know what you're doing. Right? As I started selling gym owners rather than weight loss, when I was selling my turnaround business, I started getting leads but I didn't have any like methodology. So like I had a webinar, it didn't work. And so I just started finding people on Google using their emails. And so I'd find their social profiles and I'd, I'd literally have to piece together like a profile of who this person was.

0 (1h 35m 6s):
'cause the only thing I was collecting was an email for this webinar. And so I'd find like three or four social profiles and then I would connect with them and I would do some research so that I could make my reach out and not look sketchy as hell. And so when I would do my reach out that I would have all this data that I put as almost like a little profile together about them. And so when I hopped on the phone, they were like, whoa, like you know a lot about my gym. And I was like, well yeah. And I saw that 'cause I look at the images and like, so I saw your square footage layout. I think if you move this here, this might actually be able to allow you to double the amount of usable square footage that you have for the sessions. And that would help me sell more people into your gym. So I dunno if you're open to something like that, but now I'm coming in with like I see the problem, I also have the solution.

0 (1h 35m 46s):
'cause I thought about it before we got on the phone 'cause I don't wanna waste your time trying to figure things out now. I wanna figure 'em out beforehand, come with you with solutions. And this is when I was starting out. So I didn't have a reputation yet. So I had to build the reputation by showing up and providing more value than other people were ahead of time. And this is where like if you're new and you're coming into a space, you win through prep. Like the big guys had the reputation, the small guys went through preparation. The best salespeople take notes. This is one of those things that is just like prep, but it preps you for the next call. And so you do your public preparation with what you can find and observe. You do your second call preparation with what you find out on the phone.

0 (1h 36m 28s):
And I'm telling you, if you hop on the phone and say, oh yeah, so you've got your daughter Sarah and Jessica and they're at, you know Colorado and they're finishing up and you've got X, Y, and Z happening in the business. Is that correct? Okay, cool. Just making sure because just reading over some of the past notes, forgot got on the call, they're like, oh wow, I don't have to re-say my whole life story again. This guy. Now when this guy makes recommendations, I assume he does it within the context of my business. 'cause one of the big things when you are selling something is that people wanna make sure that it, not only that it works, but it's gonna work for them. And so you can address that concern before it ever comes up by proving that your recommendations are contextual. This is also what switches you from being a salesman to a consultant.

0 (1h 37m 9s):
This is what switches you from somebody who's just trying to close to somebody who's trying to help. The most brilliant salespeople listen more than they talk. And this is one that people get wrong all the time, is that they see super talkative people. I mean moms in high school are like, you should get into sales 'cause you don't shut up. No, that's not, it's not always the case. That's what, that's what bad salespeople look like. And unfortunately the thing is, is the best salespeople don't come off as salespeople. They just close. And so people don't feel sold. They feel like they bought. And so everybody buys stuff every day all the time. And they're buying from companies that have salespeople and they don't know it.

0 (1h 37m 52s):
So when you go to a restaurant and they ask you if you want dessert, that's a sale. They get commissions on those things. And if they do it in a weird way, you're like, ugh, I don't wanna be sold. If they do it in a great way, you're like, oh, I'm so glad that person made that recommendation. And so you never felt like you got sold. You felt like you bought. And so the problem is that the reputation of salespeople is terrible because you only remember the bad ones. We actually did this big study 'cause we have a huge amount of sales calls that we can look at across the whole portfolio. And we use software that analyzes the calls with AI and all that stuff. We can see what's talk time versus listen time. And the best salespeople listen twice as much as they talk. And so the little isms that I have for this is that the person who's answering the questions is the one getting interrogated. You don't wanna be the one getting interrogated. And whenever you answer questions, you give the other person something to attack.

0 (1h 38m 35s):
And so you want them to be answering so that you have things that you can pick apart and move around. If you are the one answering questions, then you're the one who's getting picked apart and has things that they can disagree with. I wanna be like smoke, right? They can't, they can't catch anything that I say. And so if someone says, you know, hey well tell me, tell me what makes you better than your competition. I'd be like, well what things you're looking for right back to them, right? It's like, it's like hot potatoes. It's like right back to you. Well I would want this, this and this and this. I'm like, why are those things important to you right back to you, right? Like I, I can do this all day, right? Like I, I can not answer. 'cause the thing is, is that they believe nothing that you say. They believe everything that they say. And so I need them to say that it's a good idea, not me.

0 (1h 39m 17s):
When I started selling weight loss, I realized really quickly that I had an agenda of what I wanted to tell people they needed to do. And I realized that I didn't have time in 15 minutes to reeducate someone their last 10 years of life of all the experiences good and bad that they had prior to me. What I needed to do in that moment was get them to buy and then I could spend the rest of my time trying to do the real education stuff. And so I wanted to simply align with where they were coming from to get them to make the sale. And so that was why I started asking, what have you done before? What did you like? What did you not like? Rather than picking apart the things they did and then them be like, I actually really like that about that other thing.

0 (1h 39m 57s):
Lost the sale. Only takes a few times of doing that to be like, I'm gonna shut the fuck up and just let them tell me what they liked and then I'll say, we're like that and not like that. And so the whole concept here is you want to educate the prospect so that they can come to their own conclusion. And so the only gaps that you're filling is, is hard information. And I only give that information after I already know it's the right answer. And so just like lawyers don't ask questions when they're on the stand that they don't already know the answers to should never ask for the sale unless you already know they're gonna buy. And so there are times, and this is where pattern recognition's helpful for salespeople, this is what the brilliant salespeople do, is that if they're like, I don't think he's ready there. I don't think he's ready yet.

0 (1h 40m 37s):
And it's like, you don't, you don't go for the kill, you just ask more questions. Like I feel some hesitation, like what are your main concerns right now? Like I'm feeling some hesitation around price. Talk to me about that. There's two ways by the way, if you're weirded out about asking questions is that you can both give commands or ask questions. And so you can change the the cadence up in the script by saying, so instead of saying for example, Hey how's it going? It's an easy first thing a lot of people say on the first thing in the call, but if I say tell me about your day, it's a very different thing because it it, people have automatic responses to questions they hear all the time. And so if you wanna break a pattern with somebody and then get them more present, you say, tell me about your day. And they're like, oh, I mean it, it was good. I had a couple calls before this and you're like, oh that's fantastic.

0 (1h 41m 18s):
Is that related to this thing? 'cause I looked up, looked you up online, totally different perspective on that salesperson. The first 30 seconds, right? So they listen more than they talk. They are like smoke. You only answer questions with questions unless you already know that the statement that you're gonna say is in alignment with what you know the person wants. And so if they're like, tell me why you're different, then I'd be like, well what have you done in the past? Because then it'll gimme more context so I can help explain it. Now they're gonna say all these things. I'll be like, well what did you like about that? What did you not like about that? And so when I get to the point where I actually have to say what, what are things about? I'm gonna highlight all the things they liked about the other stuff and I'm gonna not highlight the things they didn't like about the other stuff. And all of a sudden they'd be like, this is perfect.

0 (1h 41m 59s):
I'd be like, what do you know? I just asked you the question of the things you wanted. And as long as they're the things that we can actually provide, I highlighted those features about our thing because I already knew which piano keys to play. 'cause you told me They breathe the script. And so the reason I use that is because that is the best description I can give is that they can, they can say it without thinking just like you breathe without thinking they can say the script without thinking because you can't listen to a prospect if you're waiting to talk because you're trying to remember what you're gonna say next. You need to know all of the script like the bible or like something that you've memorized in the past so that you can be a hundred percent present with the prospect and listening.

0 (1h 42m 40s):
And so my favorite ism around this is again, and the first time I learned this was I saw an exceptional sales trainer training a rep and he was just drilling them on the opening 30 seconds of the script. And so they did the script and I heard and I, and I was watching him listen to them while giving them visual cues. And so this is, this was a huge advancement in terms of my understanding of selling happened because before this I knew how to sell but I couldn't transfer the skill. But this guy was sitting there and he was like, yep, yep, yep. Pause harder on this word. Do it again. Nice. Do it again. Nice one more time. Nice. Keep going. And so he would get them to drill it three times in a row the right way after making the correction and then he would keep going in the script.

0 (1h 43m 26s):
And so the point was is that if you're a salesperson, you need to be able to do it again and again and again because the word concision matters a lot. You don't want to be one of these salespeople that takes a hundred words to say something you could say in five. It'll also make your sales way longer. So again, the best salesperson can take more calls because they shorten the call required. A mediocre salesperson will do the script in the beginning and it'll close and they will have coughed right before they ask for the close and then the person closes. And so they get reinforcement for coughing. And so the next sales call they take, they add a cough in and whether that person closes or not, they're like, well it worked on that other one.

0 (1h 44m 6s):
And so all of a sudden they add coughing in right before they close. Now the next time, on the time that they close, let's say on their fourth call after this, they also added a second question in before the close. So they add the second question in. And then you see where this happens is now they cough and add a second question to every single call that they do. And by doing this over time, the length of the script and the length of the things that salespeople do continues to expand because they get positive reinforcement. But the reality is that that person might have just been willing to buy no matter what. And so the script gets longer and longer even though it might not have nothing to do with what was required to close. And so you want to be as concise as humanly possible and this is what the best salespeople do and order to close the most sales per day, per unit of time.

0 (1h 44m 48s):
Because the less time you're on the phone after you make the sale, the more time you have to fill your calendar back up and close more deals. And so the three tactics, this is the sales managers, is that you rehearse the script every morning. They do role plays, meaning let's pretend like you're a prospect. Like you gotta, you gotta get over whatever your weirdness is with role playing. Like, I don't know what it is, but so many managers like don't wanna role play like get over yourself. You have to role play in order for them to get good. And when you do the role playing, you work on one specific part of the script. Because if you're doing it every morning, you're gonna be able to work things pretty quickly. But you're like, today we're just gonna focus on the intro today we're just gonna focus on the close today I just want you to focus on how we're overcoming spouse overcomes.

0 (1h 45m 29s):
I want you to overcome, I have to think about it issues. I want you to gimme two or three bangs in a row to overcome that obstacle. 'cause you seem to be struggling with it, right? And so by, and you just keep hitting it again and again and again so that when it comes up, they just breathe it out rather than thinking about it. Also, because no one can improve multiple things at the same time. So when you say, Hey, there's nine things you did wrong, one, it's incredibly discouraging. Second, they can't improve any of them. And so if you look at any good skills coach, whether it's a basketball coach or it's a painting coach or a sales coach, they work, they might see you have a hundred things wrong with your game, they're just gonna focus on one at a time until they clean 'em all up and then all of a sudden you become an exceptional salesperson. So I said I had nine, but I have way more than nine. So enjoy. So here's number 10.

0 (1h 46m 12s):
They kill zombies up front. Now that's the term that we use internally. You can say diffuse the bomb, which is one that I did earlier in my career is what I used to say, but I'm Middle Eastern. So you know, we had to change that. The formal definition that I use is you've got obstacles and you've got objections. An obstacle occurs before you've mentioned the price. And so if someone says, for example, you know I have a special snowflake thyroid issue, right? And you're trying to say like, you need to do this thing to lose weight, you know that that's gonna blow up on you in the sale. See we're doing bomb references. So you have to address it upfront and it's much easier to address things before you ask for money than after. If you do it after, it's called an objection. Alright? So I say obstacles are upfront, you wanna avoid 'em, you wanna move around them, right? I mean mean you have to crush through 'em realistically, but you get through those and then objections you have to handle.

0 (1h 46m 54s):
But now the, the time is ticking on the bomb. Like now you have a short period of time before it blows up on you, right? Or the zombie's about to bite you, whatever analogy you want. Spouse for example, or decision maker, or I'm not gonna have time to do this thing. Or there's elements of this, you know, program or implementation that aren't a fit for me. You wanna address all that stuff up front so that you've handled everything before the stakes get lifted when you mention price and then you go for the close and the obstacles and objections that you handle are always the same. And so they're gonna bubble up to three main things. One is gonna be circumstances. So circumstances is gonna be time, it's gonna be money, it's gonna be com, things about this specific program or implementation.

0 (1h 47m 34s):
Those are all circumstances, those are outside. The next is gonna be other people. It's gonna be my wife, my employees, my kid, my some, my business partner, somebody else has decision making authority. And the third is gonna be myself. Somebody who themselves doubts that they can do it or that they will be successful or that it's the way they want it to be done. The good news is that most of the time when you are diffusing these bombs, they start with the outside. 'cause time, money fit is what I like to call it, are things that are really easy to cast blame to. And it's, and it's almost a, it's a, it's a response, right? It's like they don't have to think about it. Like, I don't have time, I don't have the money, I don't have, I don't have the card I want. Like I don't have the, you know, whatever. If they talked about an authority figure, then it means that like I would do it, but this person's in the way.

0 (1h 48m 18s):
And so now you're one step closer to the decision maker. Once you handle that, if you have somebody who says, I need to think about it, that's actually great 'cause it means you're already two layers of the onion deeper to just like you're talking to somebody who's in power who can make the decision. Great. Now you just have to help, help them make the decision. And so you should know all of the key fundamentals of how to overcome these. Now you can memorize each of them, which I highly recommend, but I think it's also good to understand the fundamentals. And so this is what the best salespeople do is that they have key stories or metaphors to break the belief that the person has around that obstacle. So for example, if someone says, Hey, I can't decide today, 'cause you know, my husband and I make all of our decisions together right now, this depends on the nature of your sale.

0 (1h 49m 7s):
If you're in a transactional sale, and I would say like a consumer based sale that's under a thousand bucks, maybe 2000 bucks, usually you have to do that right there. If you have like a B2B sale, that's gonna be a multi, you know, multi call sale, then you might have to bring in stakeholders. And so this is one of the nuances that depends on the thing you're selling and the price point. But the way that the best salespeople do this is that you play out something in the past and you play it out in the future. Okay? So with the decision maker, you'd say, Hey, so let me tell you about this girl Susan. She was just like you. And she actually had the same issue come up where she was like, I don't do anything without the consent of my husband. And you know what happened? She walked out, her husband said, I don't want you to spend the money.

0 (1h 49m 48s):
I actually saw her a few years later and when I talked to her, I said, Hey, so how's, how's things going with the, you know, the fitness stuff? She was like, oh, they're, they're not. And I was like, oh, why? She was like, well my husband never lets me do anything. And I was like, oh geez, that's gotta be kind of rough. And she was like, yeah, it sucks. And so the thing is, is that if you play it out into the future, like you're gonna end up resenting that person because they're not letting you do what you want. And so I think what you're asking for is permission. When you really need support. That's how you, how you like, you go from past to future, right? And so then you can play it out with this person. So, so let's play it out five years. So over the last five years you've gained five pounds a year. So you're 25 pounds heavier. So five years from now, if you're 25 pounds heavier than you are right now, they're like, oh my god, if I'm 25 pounds heavier than I'm, I'm like, but that's just the track you're on.

0 (1h 50m 34s):
And so let's play it out. It like, what if they say no? And so sometimes they're like, well then I would do it anyways. Then you're like, awesome, let's sign you up now one outta three times. That's actually what happened. Which is crazy. I still am blown away by that. But then the two outta three times, then I go, you want permission not support. Now if you're looking at time or money for example, then you say, hey, we need, we need resourcefulness now resources. So it's like you have your little isms that you can remember. If it's time, then it's, well is it a seasonal thing? Because if it's a seasonal thing means you're busy right now and you might be, you know, less busy later, that assumes that you'll never be busy again. And so do you want this thing to be long lasting, this implementation or do you want it to be just like only for the time that you're not busy and then you'll fall off again when, when you get busy, well shoot, I want it to last forever.

0 (1h 51m 18s):
It's like, okay, well then you should probably start when you're busy. 'cause that's what I'm gonna be giving you the most support is now. So that when you get to the, the free time, it'll be easy coasting. And when you get busy again, you know how to stick with it 'cause you had the support, right? And so again, it's like you have to be able to dismantle these things as you understand all of these, there's a fundamental underlying fallacy of giving away power to something else because people don't wanna make mistakes, they don't want to fail. And so they come up with all of these excuses, they come up with time. They say like that's the seasonal thing. You can have time in terms of the micro, which is I don't have time in my day. I'm like, well you're here, so when were you imagining it? This is why you do this upfront. When were you imagining it? How much time can you dedicate to this implementation to this SEO agency, to this weight loss program?

0 (1h 52m 1s):
Whatever it is, right? If you ask that upfront, then if they say, oh, I don't have time with it, then you can say, well what changed between then and now just so I have understanding, did I ask the question in a weird way that made you like not understand it? And again, this is where tone matters a lot. 'cause now you're in the red zone right now it's like the bomb's way more sensitive 'cause the, the the the time ticker's going. And so we want to be extra, this is where rapport is so important in the beginning, because I, I'll add this in. This is a bonus one. I call it the ghetto tone. Okay? And I learned this from Sam b yard. So he had a personal training business and that's who I, I I shadowed underneath. When I got into fitness, he let me just work for him for minimum wage.

0 (1h 52m 41s):
And so I learned how the gym business worked. But anyways, I saw him have this, you know, rich white lady doesn't put her weights back, right? And he was still training at the time, like he was training sessions a little bit. And so he was like, girl, he's like, I know you ain't about to leave my gym without putting your weights back. And he is a Persian dude, right? But he would get into this kinda like ghetto, like whatever you wanna call it, way of talking. And she'd be like, ah, fine, I'll go put 'em back. And I thought about that and I was like, man, if I had just been like, Hey Susan, can you put your weights back? Like she's like, I pay for personal training, you can put my weights back. Like that could get really bad really fast.

0 (1h 53m 21s):
But when you say it like that, all of a sudden it's like I'm communicating the same thing and I get the desired result and they think it's fun and lighthearted. And so in the same sense, when you're in the close, I use a ton of humor and that tonality to diffuse hard conversations. So I say like, girl, I was like five minutes ago, it's like you had four hours a week. I was like, what happened to my four hours? If I say that no one's gonna be upset with me. They'd be like, ah, well I mean I didn't know that it was gonna be X, Y, and Z. And then I'd be like, fine. I know. I'd be like, so, and then, then then tone switch and you're like, what's really going on? And then you get the real stuff because guess what?

0 (1h 54m 6s):
Closers ask hard questions, right? And they're the questions, it's the place where you don't want to go versus where you need to go, which is you want them to diffuse the bomb in front of you and not when they get home, right? And so you don't want them to sit with the decision you want them to confront. It's like you might be wondering, this is a lot of money, let's talk about it, right? You might be wondering if your husband's gonna be against it. Well let's talk about some reasons that he might not be against it. Let's talk about what your business partner will say if you buy this without their permission. Let's talk about that, right? And so you want to confront those ugly things. You don't wanna, 'cause like you're not like I, if I, if you take anything from this, the best salespeople want to confront it because they're better at selling them than they are at selling themselves.

0 (1h 54m 47s):
So you want them to confront the obstacle in front of you so that you can help them through it. So don't wait for like, you're not gonna avoid it. I promise you. You think you're avoiding the landmine by like, ooh. Because sometimes you hear that thing in the beginning of the call and you're like, Ooh, that's a bit, I don't know if I wanna blow the call dude, it's gonna blow up in the close if you can't even can't even confront it before you've mentioned price. It's definitely coming up after you mentioned price. So like confront it now. So one of my favorite ways to get to the hard question is asking what are you afraid of happening? And then I follow that with let's just play it out. A lot of times it's like people don't even wanna look at what's gonna happen. It's like, no, let's play it out. Right? Like I remember I had this, this sale that happened where I had a lady who was like, I follow Dave Ramsey and I have envelopes of cash and if I give you this envelope that's my grocery money for the week if I do this program.

0 (1h 55m 38s):
And I was like, okay, well what are you afraid of? And she like paused and I was like, is it that you won't be able to afford food? I was like, would you be afraid of that? And she was like, well yeah. 'cause she thought she was gonna win the sale there, but it was a trap. And I was like, but you're trying to lose weight. I was like, worst case scenario, don't afford food, you lose some weight. I was like, win-win Now I did that with a good tone. So she got a laugh out of it, right? And I was like, but let's be real. I was like, have you ever bought anything in the past that you weren't sure you could afford? I was like, and where are you now? You still survived. You're not on the couch, right? I was like, we always make it work in the end, right? And you have to cut somewhere else. I was like, this is something that's gonna last with you forever. Like you have all these clothes. I was like, you wanna make all of them look better in six weeks? I was like, just lose 20 pounds.

0 (1h 56m 19s):
What are you afraid of? Let's play it out. Best case, worst case when you do that, you can basically take away the emotion from the decision and say, okay, worst case scenario, you're on your friend's couch and you know what? You were poor before this and you were happy then too. So worst case scenario is you in the same position you've been in before and it was fine. Best case scenario, you change your life forever. So does that feel like a bet you're willing to take, right? And so if you, if you just, you wanna confront it and then walk into what they're afraid of and just say, let's play it out. So this happens here, this happens here. Best case, worst case. And I can tell you like I've probably closed more sales on best case, worst case than any other close I have.

0 (1h 56m 60s):
Ask for the sale again. And so this is a big one. If you do not ask for the sale, you will not get it. That is a promise. Once you ask, if you ask again, you'll increase the likelihood that they buy. Now th there's a right way to do this and a wrong way to do this. If you just ask again when someone says no bad, look, if someone says no and you ask why and then you resolve the why, then you ask again. And that makes sense. It says, Hey, I can't make Tuesdays. And you say, no worries if we're able to do it on Thursday, would that work for you? And they say yes. They say awesome. So you wanna move forward, you ask again, right? So all you're doing is resolving the concern. There's terms in the industry called looping or you know, obstacle overcomes whatever. Whatever wording you want to use is that you resolve the concern and you ask again.

0 (1h 57m 43s):
And you can do this literally in limited times as long as you resolve the concern and then you ask again. I mean Layla will tell you that. Like if it was either a Sunday sale, 'cause I usually had way less calls on Sundays or it was the last appointment of the day for me. She just knew that I would always close that sale because I would just have unlimited time. 'cause I was like, I will just keep going and so I'll ask again and again and again. And I had, I had a partner back in the day. I dunno if I like the visual, but he is like, he's like, you're like a pit bull on someone's ankle. He is like, you just will not fucking let them leave. And I was like, it's 'cause I think I think that they need it. They came in 'cause they're trying to lose weight, we sell weight loss. What's the problem? Like we just have to figure it out. And usually it's just like it's mounds of stuff.

0 (1h 58m 24s):
You have to un pile of all these excuses of all the times that they've been unsuccessful in their lives. It's like they came in 'cause they wanna solve the problem and when then they get confronted with the decision, they get freaked out again. 'cause they really have this past traumas of the things they've tried and then feeling like a failure. And then they associate that failure with you in the moment you're like, Hey, hey Susan, calm down. We're just gonna have you eat some fucking chicken and walk a little bit. It's gonna be okay. And so the best closers come from the frame of helping the prospect. And so I will tell you this right now, the best salespeople care more about the prospect than they do. So whoever cares the most about the prospect wins the sale. And so if they care more about themselves, then they will win. Now you're like, well of course they're gonna look care more about themselves.

0 (1h 59m 5s):
Ah, if you have more context than they do, which you should because you know more about the product than they do, you should be able to have the best perspective to say No, I'm not gonna let this guy's limiting beliefs get in the way 'cause I really want to help him or really wanna help her. And I can see that today it feels safe to retreat back to not taking action on this huge pain that they have. But I can see how this is gonna play out 'cause I've seen a hundred other people just like them walk out the door and I see 'em, you know, a year later in their exact same position or worse. And I don't want that for them. And so if you keep the human at the forefront of your mind when you're making the sale, you'll never come across pushy because you, they could hear the intention, they can hear the tonality in your voice about you actually just trying to help them. So when you ask for the sale, again, having key stories and metaphors that you can use to break beliefs is what allows you to then ask again is you can do that literally unlimited times as long as they have time and you have time and you address the problem.

0 (1h 59m 60s):
Now if you don't address the problem and ask again to go annoyed. So you just wanna make sure that you have an answer and you should have an answer because you've had this conversation before. There's nothing they should be able to tell you that should surprise you. If we zoom out, we have a sales person who has maximum hours, maximum days, they have as many time slots per day filled up with the best prospects. 'cause they work them well. They have a plan before and after, come prepared to the call and take notes and follow up with them. Bamfam the whole thing. And when they're on the call, they're completely present. They breathe the script, they know how to handle obstacles. They have, they have analogies and stories and metaphors memorized so they can help people overcome their issues. They stick to the script. They don't add to the script. They keep their word concision as tight as humanly possible so they can maximize the number of sales they have per day and maximize the conversion rate of those sales.

0 (2h 0m 44s):
Fundamentally, sales, by the way I should have defined this earlier, is increasing the likelihood that prospect buys. That's all. It's so everything that has to do with sales, like if you had the perfect sales process, it means you would account for every single variable that could ever happen to any human. And you would get a hundred percent of people who go through this process to buy. That's what a perfect sales process would be. And so it's a percentage conversion. That's all it's, and so with that, we have maximum opportunities, maximum percentage conversion. We have an amazing sales rep, but what if they can only do it for a day? That gets into the third bucket, which is what I would consider meta skills, which is traits of the best salespeople. The things that most salespeople struggle with are trait issues, meaning they are on and then they're off again.

0 (2h 1m 29s):
They're on and they're off. They get, they get motivated, they get demotivated, motivated, demotivated. If you feel like this then it's a skill deficiency. You just don't know how to sustain performance for a long period of time. And I promise you the difference between champions and everyone else is they can sustain performance. It's not like, oh, I don't know if sales is for me. I don't know if I'm growing enough in my dude. Here's the clear deficiencies. You can't stay consistent. There's some growth that you can tackle right now being consistent. Another kind of meta skill around this is enthusiasm. Like they're enthusiastic one week, they're not enthusiastic the next week. Being able to sustain and maintain a high level of enthusiasm for with the role and when you're on the call is a skill. It's a skill. You whistle while you work, you gotta learn how to do it. You gotta learn to like the stuff you don't love so that you can do the thing you really love, which is sales.

0 (2h 2m 14s):
The best salespeople kill for sport. So lemme tell you this little analogy, huh? Notice a little analogies. So I heard this from Mike Arsey and I just love this. He said, there's three types of salespeople. There's dogs, horses, and tigers. He's like, dogs, you gotta feed 'em. And if you don't feed 'em, they starve to death. And you gotta, you gotta give 'em all this attention, you gotta rub their belly every day. And the moment you stop, they die. Horses, they will gallop as long as you keep whipping them. But the moment you stop galloping, they just go down to a trot. He's like, but tigers, he said, A tiger can eat a full meal, but then if a bunny walks across his line of vision will kill the bunny for sport. He's like, you want tigers? And I love that little analogy because the best salespeople that I've ever met in my life, they love sales, they love the thrill of the close of the hunt.

0 (2h 2m 57s):
When I was selling weight loss, I would sometimes have homeless people and things like that that would come in, who would respond to my ads? It would happen, right? I had two ways to take it. I could try and not take it seriously, try and just like basically just get through the sales so I could move on with my life or I could see it as free practice. And what's crazy is the amount of times where I judge someone as poor and turned out that they just dress different. I don't know anything about that was more times than I can count. And a lot of them were like, Hey, I appreciate you just like, you know, treating me well. I was like, of course. I was like, this is a business. Your money spends the same. And so you either practice the skill or you close.

0 (2h 3m 37s):
Either way you win. It's a lot like lifting weights where if you have your warmup reps and they look different than your heavy reps, you're actually not practicing at all. So you're wasting all these opportunities that you could be practicing your skill. Sharpening the sword, which is what we call it in the sales world. You could be sharpening your short but you're actually making it dull. 'cause you're practicing the wrong way. You're learning bad habits by not taking the sale seriously. So the best salespeople kill for sport. And so I had a, I'll tell you a Jacob story, which is my, my young, my young, you know, started with me at like 15 and now he's been with me however many years. Seven, he started as a low man on the totem pole. And so when we would have lesser qualified leads, they handed all of them to Jacob. He's like, I'll be the garbage man.

0 (2h 4m 18s):
He's like, I'll take anybody's leads. He's like, I just wanna get good. I just wanna practice. And so he's trying to take as many reps as he possibly could. And guess what happened? He started taking more reps than everyone else did. And guess what happened after that? He got better than other people did. 'cause he took more reps and he took every one of these as a fucking gift, which is what it is, is that someone's gonna give you the time to learn the skill of sales. The business paid for that lead. Maybe it's less qualified, they paid for it just the same. And you have the benefit of learning the amount of people who wanna learn how to sell better and are unwilling to take quote unqualified leads is ridiculous to me. It's free practice with stakes and you still have the possibility of winning and closing a deal. Try track data.

0 (2h 4m 57s):
The best salespeople track data. And so they're meticulous about the data they track. And so let me explain this so you can judge, and I've just seen this across my portfolio. The skill of any person in any endeavor that they practice by the quantity and quality of the metrics they track. And so if someone says, oh, I'm good at sales, I'd be like, cool, tell me about the metrics you track. Now if they're like, ah, just you know, close rate, it's like, well there's so many other metrics that you could track to understand how good you are at sales. 'cause the close rate is really just an outcome. It gives you no leading indicators, it tells you nothing else, right? I wanna know what percentage of leads you're booking. I wanna know what percentage of scheduled things are showing. I wanna know of show rate. What percentage are you offering of offer?

0 (2h 5m 37s):
How many of you're closing? How many, how many? What's your average call to close? Are you doing one call, two call 1.2. Like what's your, what's your average number? What's your average number of cash collected? Like there's so many other metrics that you can track to know how well you're doing as a salesperson. And yes for everybody, like shout this from the rooftops, if you can get their schedule rate up by 20%, it's just as good as getting their close rate up by by 20%. And so there's so many other things in the funnel that the best salespeople know about closing about how to increase the total number of sales they get by controlling all of the other variables that are under their control. Now the bad guys, the dogs are like, I only want these times and I want them to be spoonfed to me.

0 (2h 6m 17s):
And if I don't get them fed there and you don't pat me on the head, I'm gonna starve to death and die. Right? That's what the dogs do. And if you've got salespeople like that, they're dogs. I don't care how many, how much experience they have, they're dogs, right? Tigers are like, I want to be available to kill whenever because I just love the hunt. I would do this for free. I'm just happy I get paid to do it. Pro tip, if you are somebody who's running a sales team, if you want to increase the close rates across the entire team even more, give the best closers the best leads. And the way you do that is that you have to start by scoring your leads first, which means you actually have to track data. So you can see these people have the highest likelihood of closing when they have these three characteristics, they close at a way higher percentage and then you give those leads to the best guys.

0 (2h 6m 58s):
So fundamentally, you'd want the worst leads to go to the worst guy, the best leads to go to the best guy and everyone in between. And so by doing that you actually match the org. And so I actually had a salesman that I knew who was the top sales rep for a timeshare business and it's exactly what you think it was. So it's a billion dollar plus company. This guy was making 3 million a year in commission selling timeshares. And I had dinner with him and I was like, what do you do? You know differently? And he said, well I won the sales competition. And so I got one hour with the CEO. And on that one hour with the CEO, which is the prize for winning the sales competition, it was 3000 salespeople. It was number one. He said, I just said if you give me the best leads instead of wasting them on on these guys who are new, he's like, I will make you so much money. And so the guy experimented with his little division and he five Xed his income as the sales guy and then they took it and they rolled it out nationwide and they five xed the business.

0 (2h 7m 49s):
And so there's a huge opportunity in every business to give the best closers, the best leads because you make more money. And what happens is, is that the best guys will actually make more and more and more money, which then creates a survivorship bias for new guys coming in. And so if you know that best guy used to make 200,000 a year as the top closer but now can make 800,000 a year, the amount of salespeople that you will attract, your opportunity will 10 x. Now, even though the entry level guys now make less than they did before the opportunity, just like the lottery, the same reason people buy tickets is they assume that they're going to get there. And so by having it this way, you'll have people come in willing to make less because they know that if they, if they perform well, they'll go to the big leagues.

0 (2h 8m 34s):
Now the other benefit of this is that you train your new guys on the worst leads. So you lose the least money as a business, but they also develop their skills 'cause they've gotta learn how to big borrow, steal and squeeze blood from the stones from the least qualified customers. And so when they get to somebody who's got a 700 credit score and actually has intent to buy, they're like, oh my god, this is amazing. Because they practiced on somebody who's like missing an arm and missing seven credit cards and they are in bankruptcy and they're actually in the middle of a divorce and their real name isn't Al, it's actually Larry it. And you know it's complicated. I'm a li a liquid right now. I'm between thing, you know, whatever, right? And they're closing those people for lunch money.

0 (2h 9m 14s):
And so when you learn how to do that, when you get to like qualified prospects, you're like, oh my god, this is amazing. But at that point, the business doesn't bear the cost the sales person does so that they can develop their skills. 'cause this being real, you're still paying them to learn. And I'd rather pay as little as I can so I can allocate the resources the best way possible in the business. My biggest pet peeve and the reverse of that is my favorite thing about the best salespeople is that they never blame circumstances. So whenever I have a salesperson who's like, the leads are bad or you know these, these people aren't a good fit or blah, just like whatever BS that they can come up with or like, I don't like the commission structure, we should change. Like just focus on the things you can control, right?

0 (2h 9m 57s):
And the guys that I love the most never complain. They pick up the extra shifts, they call the leads the most, they work them the most. They're like, these leads are amazing. I'm so grateful to have these and be able to practice and get paid to do it. And there's a time and a place for giving feedback on stuff. Group calls, not one of them. If you are one of these salespeople, you give it one-on-one with the managers, say, Hey, by the way, I've noticed like some people get on the phone just objectively, like their credit scores are just consistently lower than they were a couple months ago. I don't know if we've changed anything on the marketing side, I'm gonna approach the leads the same. I love the practice. Just thought might be, you know, useful data for marketing, right? That's very different than like, dude, these leads are shit, I'm, I'm not taking these calls, right? That's just a prima donna and I hate that.

0 (2h 10m 39s):
And so again, the worst the leads, the better you get to flex your skill. And the best salespeople take 100% of the control and the best marketers take a hundred percent of the control too. And so if everybody is taking absolute blame for every outcome, guess what you win. We doubled one of our portfolio companies sales by tweaking several tiny things in the sales process. And you can use all the same tactics in your business too. Enjoy three young founders who are all sad because they were not making the amount of money that they wanted to make. So before I show you the data, let me explain what each of these terms actually mean. So show rate is the percentage of people who have an appointment who show up for their appointment. So in any business, if you deal with people, you'll have sessions or appointments.

0 (2h 11m 21s):
Do you have a time slot that someone says they're going to show up, right? If it's a sales consult, then they're a prospect and they're gonna show up to get sold. So if I have a hundred people who have an appointment and 70 show up, that would be a 70% show rate. The second one here is offer rate, which we forgot to put in the rate. So lemme just put that in for you. There we go. Offer rate, which is the percentage of people that we actually make an offer to. You might be like, well why would I not offer everybody? Well, not everyone's qualified. And so for example, if I work with only gym owners and somebody comes on as like, oh, I'm a personal trainer, well you shouldn't be here. We had all these other things that said don't be here but you still came. Why are you here? That means that you don't offer them anything and that's it. Now, if a hundred percent of people who showed up show rate you were able to offer to, then that means that your offer rate would be a hundred percent and that is an indicator of the quality of the lead flow that you have.

0 (2h 12m 1s):
The third is close rate. This depends on how you can track this, alright? So you can either do it based on percentage of people who show, or you can do it on a percentage of people who are offered. What I normally do is I'll just track both. I'm gonna guess that this one is off of offer rate because it's what we have here. It's good to have both stats here because let's say a salesman wants to artificially increase his close rate, well then he will just say, well, I'm not gonna offer anyone unless I know they're gonna say yes. And so then their close rate high and then they'll show that there's a really low quality score. But if that salesman, this is why having team stats is so important and individually is because if the team is all saying that their off rate 70 and one guy is saying his off rates 30, but he has a hundred percent close rate and they all have 30% close rates, we know where the data went. And this is why having high quality data allows you to see what the problems are.

0 (2h 12m 43s):
If I didn't have this percentage, then I wouldn't know it's because we have low quality leads or because my salesman suck. This data allows me to identify the problem and then fix it. So the fourth step here is percentage of cash collected up front. Meaning if we're selling a thousand dollars widgets and the average cash we collect today is $500 because people do payment plans, then we would know our cash collected percentage would be 50%. If I have a low close rate, but high cash collected percentage, that would tell me a different story than a really high close rate and really low cash collected percentage, I'd be like, oh. So they're just getting anyone to say yes and taking $10 down if they can versus somebody saying we have a hard line. And so it's really trying to find the magic between these two and saying, how can I get as many people to say yes and get as much cash collected up front? The final one here is just units sold and this is really just the output of these four.

0 (2h 13m 26s):
Well, if we multiply all these things together, how many we end up closing and that's the result. So beforehand, damn, we had a 49% show rate. So let's say we have a hundred appointments, now we have 49 who actually show up for their appointment. And then of the 49 we're able to offer 83% of them beforehand. So 80% of that is 40. 40 people now are getting offered out of our original a hundred appointments of the people get offered. 27% of them, which is 10 people roughly, are actually buying in that closing percentage. And then our cash collected from those 10 people is we're getting a little less than half of the cash that we closed down. Now I gave you a hundred as a number, but the actual number of units sold for this business in the prior month was 56 units.

0 (2h 14m 8s):
Alright, so this is current state. If you don't know these numbers in your business, you should so that you can improve them. Let's say I invest in your business today. The first thing we wanna do is get the data so that we can see what baseline is so we can see where the discrepancies are and where we think the biggest opportunities for improvement are. And you're gonna have to wait till the end of the video. I'm gonna show you what happened after. So let's start with problem number one or opportunity for improvement. Number one, we had a low show rate as in based on our benchmarks of 70% for any kind of appointment type business, we think that we should have at least 70 there. Alan, which is a company that I had. All we did was show rates. We were doing 4,000 appointments a day. We experimented, we had a machine learning team to think like what was the number of communications that we had to have with a prospect?

0 (2h 14m 48s):
What was the delay between responses that got the most people? What were the total number of exchanges? How far apart were the exchanges? There is lots of data that we were able to collect. So their number was 49% of appointments were showing up. What we wanted them to be at was 70%. This is our benchmark where we'd say, okay, this isn't a problem anymore. Now do we wanna improve things? Absolutely. But where are we gonna allocate our effort at the constraint? This was a constraint. Now to give context here, this delta is a 40% difference, 40 percent's a lot. Think about the s and p 500. They're like, we try and grow 9% a year. It's like boom, I unlock that. I get 40% growth, I don't have to do anything else. But for four years in the s and p big wins, that's what we look for. Lots of things can affect show rate. By the way, the number one one that affects show rate is number of total time slot saved available, take that to the bank.

0 (2h 15m 31s):
But one of the other ones is the targeting and the offer itself. So targeting is who's actually seeing this promotion? If I am targeting teenyboppers for example, I might get people to schedule but then realize that they're not here for a laser hair removal appointment. So the targeting there would be off. And so that would affect our show rate and that has nothing to do with our lead nurture sequence or our salesman or anything like that. It's just the wrong people we're seeing it. So that was issue number one for context for us. Just imagine that's underneath was 25 to 35 year olds who are gainfully employed and love their job. And this when we came in to look at it, was actually targeting 18 to 24 year olds. The reason that this was far off for us is that the ad objective. Now I'm gonna get a little bit tactical with you ad Acquisition dot come at HoldCo, we have media buyers, we have pros who do this for a living.

0 (2h 16m 15s):
And so when they zoomed in on how their media buyer was optimizing the traffic they were optimizing, it's what a lot of people would initially think they should do, which is optimizing for the lowest cost leads and the lowest cost appointments. What we had to do was switch to optimize around cost per sale. If we can optimize around who we actually sell to, we'll shift where the sales come from. And just to give you how big of a problem this was, they had to cancel 75% of their appointments before the 49% show rate. The sales guys are spending most of their time just looking at their appointment, looking up the person canceling to get their 49% show rate. And that's about the closest thing to literally burning money. So the second big problem was multitasking. And this really goes for any role, but especially like sales driven roles. They had a setting team and a closing team and the setters were both trying to call leads to get appointments and then also nurturing and doing the follow-up to remind them of the appointment.

0 (2h 17m 3s):
And as similar as that may sound in your mind, it's two completely different activities. You're banging phones, calling people up, you're in that flow and then you're like, oh wait, Sarah has an appointment today. Let me go over remind Sarah. Is Sarah gonna show up to? And they're like, wait, I'm calling. And then you start like, and it's you go back and forth, right? So they had three big issues. Number one is that they weren't double dialing, right? Which is one of the most common things that you can do by the way if you're doing phone calls because a lot of initial screens will stop the first call, but if you dial twice you'll get through. Number two is that the time to contact was too slow. So a lead would come in and they would just like sit there for 30 minutes, 60 minutes, an hour, two hours, three hours, right? And they weren't getting contacted. It's like what did this person do? They're like, oh, I'd like to find out more information, nothing. And the third thing is that they didn't have the right time to set appointments and they weren't nurturing correctly.

0 (2h 17m 46s):
So we go same day next day, I'm just giving you some secrets. And they didn't have morning of nurture. Meaning if you have an appointment today and you booked this appointment three days ago, if I don't remind you that day that you have an appointment, the likely that you show is lower. And so these are the problems that they have. No double doubt, slow speed to contact. And they didn't have any morning of nurture. But wait, there's more. The second problem they had or opportunity for improvement was that they had a low close rate. And this is based on our benchmark. I would normally give you a KPI, but it has so many different variables in terms of what percentage close rate is. 'cause if you're selling in person, for example, for a low ticket thing, you might be able to sell 80% plus of people walk in the door. On the flip side, if you're selling an investment opportunity over the phone on you know, a first or second contact, you might sell 5%.

0 (2h 18m 31s):
But for this particular type of sale that they had, which was a two call close for like I would say a mid price consumer service, in my opinion, they should have been about 40%. So 40% is what I wanted them to be at. And then current was 27%. So this is where they were, this is where we wanted them to be. And again, for context here, this is about a 50% improvement. So problem number one is that they had service level discovery. If you're not familiar with that terminology in a sales script, there's different kind of phases that you go through in a conversation. And the opening part is often a little bit of rapport. And then right after that you get into discovery. And discovery is where you're discovering what the problems that the person's going through. You're trying to understand why they are where they are, why they're on the phone with you, why they decided to take time outta their day, why this problem's important to them, what they've tried in the past, et cetera, et cetera, right?

0 (2h 19m 13s):
This is the discovery. This gives you all the ammunition that you're gonna use at the end of the sale to close it. So the way that they were doing it was simply saying, how much money do you wanna make? Just asking the one question, which is the big obvious question, it's surface level. But the big thing that you always wanna ask when you're selling is intention. Why do they want this? Like what changes as a result of this? How will your life look different? What can you not do now that you would be able to do as a result of this change? Who else in that in your life would that effect? Why does that matter to you? Right? And so these are all why questions and it's to to dig up their intentions. Because if you can understand why someone's there, it's much easier to get them to agree to getting them there, right? But if you don't know that someone's trying to let's say replace their income versus quit their job versus just have side hustle money, those are very different intentions.

0 (2h 19m 59s):
If I wanna talk to side hustle money, I'm probably not gonna be like, this is gonna take a ton of time. On the flip side, if someone's like, I hate my job, I just wanna do something that's not this, then I might talk about what the day-to-day looks like in this scenario and ask them if that sounds better to them. So if you think about sales process, what they were doing is they were asking questions that were here, service level, but this is where all the meat is and that's where all the money is, is the questions that are below the surface is understanding why someone's even doing this to begin with you, that iceberg killer iceberg. And so the second issue is that they had a lot of objections coming up on the call. I'll say objections, but I also mean obstacles for those of you who are sales. Sales senses, objections happen after you talk about the number obstacles happened before you talk about the number.

0 (2h 20m 44s):
If you come on the phone and I say, Hey, why are you here? And you're like, I just wanna find out more information, that's actually an obstacle. Like you already have to confront that because it's like, no, you're not hopping on phone calls already. You're trying to find information. What problem are you trying to solve? And then they're like, well, and then you get into it, right? But if you don't address that upfront, it'll blow up on you in the close. So objections and obstacles is what they were encountering a lot of. And part of that is because their discovery was wrong, right? They were talking to service level. So then lots of shit was blowing up on them in the close common objections that happen after you present price is this is too much, I need to think about it. I have to talk to my spouse, I'm not sure if this is for me. I'd like to get more data. Can you send me a brochure? Like these are all just the make believe things that people will say in order to not buy from you. Interestingly, a lot of times if you stay in the surface level, they'll even give you what we call smokescreen.

0 (2h 21m 26s):
So basically like they'll just come up with a reason that they're not gonna do it. And it's not even the reason they just throw a smoke bomb up and they're like, I don't like English. You know, walk away, right? It has nothing to do with it, they just wanna get off the phone. So those are the two issues that we had on the sales and that was getting us to this 27% close rate. And what this looks like is lots of argumentation and like hard closing and it's because the sales isn't positioned properly and they were basically talking at people and not listing if the sales person is talking more than the prospect in your sales, like these are likely issues that are coming up. I'm gonna give you two examples real quick to show you how important delivery of a message is. So if I say I have to think about it and I say, oh what?

0 (2h 22m 6s):
Like what are your main concerns? Or what are the main, like what are the main variables that you're considering? You're not thinking, wow, this guy's a douche bag. I sound like I just genuinely wanna know. I call it childlike curiosity. I always cue it by tilting my head. I'm like, huh, what are the main things? And I would increase my voice at the end there. An improperly trained salesperson might be like, well what are the main concerns you have? And all of a sudden that sounds like a very different thing. So they're saying the script, but they're not. But the prospect isn't hearing the same message. And these are little details that actually can make a huge difference in ultimately how you close. There's a lot of things in tone, but I'll just say one is how you raise or lower your voice. And the second is where you choose to emphasize. If I say I didn't say he hit his wife, if I say like that I have neutral tone. If I say I didn't say he hit his wife, then it's like I'm not saying that I didn't say he hit, his wife is now saying that like those weren't my words.

0 (2h 22m 52s):
I didn't say he hit his wife, he's the one to question, I didn't say he hit his wife. It means like he might have done something else but he did something to his wife. I didn't say he hit his wife, it could have been somebody else's. I didn't say hit his wife, it might've been his kid, right? And so it's the same sentence but simply emphasizing different parts of it communicate different things. And so the tone and emphasis create a altogether package of how we communicate. And for them their tonality was way off as a team because they were missing the first five minutes of discovering and setting the frame properly. And so I'll give you the last set of problems, opportunities for improvement, and then we'll dive into what we did to solve 'em and what happened. Sales problem three, opportunity for improvement people and org structure issues. So issue number one is that CEO was the sales manager and that was because he was the best closer.

0 (2h 23m 37s):
He had a significantly higher close rate than the rest of the team, but he wasn't a very good sales manager even though he was a good closer by the way, that's one of the main issues that a lot of sales teams have. They promote their best closer as a sales manager. And oftentimes those are two very different skills. And we could see this because the churn on their sales team was through the roof. Just to be clear, like they were a group of young founders. It's not uncommon. It's actually probably very common because usually when you start a business, learning how to promote and sell a product is usually the job of the founders. Like, how do I get people to wanna buy the thing? And so they end up getting the most reps early on and also understanding the prospect better than just about anyone. And so one of the big things, you guys are a little mini sales lesson today is that companies will overeducate on the product and under-education on the prospect, the person that you should be educating your sales staff on is who we're talking to more than what we're selling.

0 (2h 24m 24s):
'cause for me, if I know someone deep in their core of what their intentions are, I can tell 'em anything. I know someone inside and out and then someone says, sell this thing and I know nothing about it. I could probably get them to buy. On the flip side, I know everything about this thing and I don't know who I'm talking to. I'm talking to a child, a man, a woman, old, young, different language. And so a lot of people talk like, Hey, sell me this pen. When in reality what we wanna do is like talk to John. The majority of good sales trainers who try to do that gimmick, what they want the person to do is ask them a question. It actually has nothing to do with the pen. And so if they say, sell me this pen, what you do is you take the pen and you put it in your pocket and you say, how's it going? What brought you in today? Right? Because I gotta go from where they're at to wanting a pen. I'm not gonna just be like, Hey, buy this pen, give me money.

0 (2h 25m 6s):
Like it doesn't work that way, but bad salesman do. So the second issue was the setting team expectations. One of the benefits of working with someone who has more experience is that we know what the benchmarks should be. And so a lot of times we can reset someone's minimum standard and they're like, well they're setting two a day and we're like, they should all be minimum setting three. And that sounds tiny, but again, two to three is a 50% increase in sets and that's across the whole team. So that means a lot of productivity. But if you set the bar low, people will just naturally shrink down to that level. Alright, so you understand the problems and here is the data. This is before they had a low show rate issue, they had low close rate and multiple issues around that and they had people in organizational issues. I want you to pause real quick in the video in the comments to be like, what would you do? How would you attack these issue if this was your business?

0 (2h 25m 47s):
And then I'll tell you what we did. Now there's two elements of solutions. Element one is what would you do to attempt to solve the problem? And the second is, which one do we do in what order? The third problem, that was actually the first thing we decided to fix. We said we hired a sales director. The reason for that was because the CEO was overly involved. He was micromanaging, he wasn't a good manager and he also wasn't doing CEO stuff. And so we had to hire an experienced sales director who in this instance had been a sales trainer for a similar type of sale in a consumer good. This guy ended up being exceptional in being able to implement the rest of the changes that we outlined. So this was in terms of order of importance. I think if we hadn't done this and had tried to do the rest of them, it would've fallen flat. This is like one of the most common errors that business owners and founders make is that they see the what and not the who or they focus on the how and not the who.

0 (2h 26m 35s):
And if you have the same problem that is recurred multiple quarters in a row in the same department underneath of the same who it might not be a what issue, it might be a who issue. One of the reasons having experience is helpful is because you know what it looks like when it's right. Some of the biggest costs in the business are hiring incorrectly. You waste the time trying to find them, you waste the time onboarding them and training them and then you waste the time of all the time it takes you to figure out that they're not the right fit and all the lost growth that you would've had to then start that process over again. That's tough. But a lot of businesses have to deal with that, which is why picking personnel is so important. With this instance, we looked at culture fit, which is like, do we think that this guy will fit in? Which we usually, the founders pick that part out like, Hey, does this guy fit in? Cool. And then we're gonna hardcore drill on usually experience and tactical knowledge.

0 (2h 27m 19s):
And so we have subject matter experts at HoldCo Media buying CRO experts, sales experts, finance expert, whatever. And we will then do tactical interviews we talked about earlier. You can know that someone's good based on the quality and quantity of the data that they collect. I would ask somebody, what data do you plan on collecting and how would you plan on fixing those things based on how vague they are and how high level they go in terms of their solutions? It'll tell you how nuanced they can be in their thinking and ultimately executing solutions. Sales directors specifically in my experience when I have guys who are like, I just wanna build up people, I want to give these guys skills. And they marry that with like, and these are the metrics that I track to know X, Y, and Z, that's a good sales director. The next thing we decided to solve, boom was fixing the ad targeting.

0 (2h 27m 60s):
And the reason we did the sales director first was because we're like, well how do we know if anything else is gonna happen afterwards if we fix this? So what we ended up doing here it turns out is that we also had another personnel issue. The media buyer was asleep at the wheel. They were optimizing around the wrong stuff. They were trying to split their attention and start their own side hustle. It was clear that they were negligent, they actually were doing the right thing and then they stopped doing the right thing. And it was clear that that type of behavior the founders felt was not going to correct itself. Did they let go of that person, hired a new person and boom, fixed the ad targeting problem. We were back to 25 to 30 5-year-old people who love their job. What did we fix next? Boom, we reduced the sales team. What? And we reset expectations for the setting team. What we looked at is sales team utilization. If we know that guys can take 10 sales a day and they're actually only taking four, then we have too many salespeople in this instance.

0 (2h 28m 45s):
It gives you an opportunity to cut the fat for lack of a better term, and reward the people who are actually doing their jobs and closing. Well, if you cut the lowest percentage of the team and you have utilization like you have space, you lose the lowest closing percentage people and you gain more closes just by shifting the closing rate overall of the team. When you make those changes, in my experience, salespeople get into a rhythm. If you don't take enough sales calls, you're too desperate to close the deal and then you start being too hard and not listening enough 'cause it's about you, not them. When salespeople have more and more consults, they sell from the back of their heel, they're open-minded, they're asking questions, they're feeling good and they get in a rhythm. The setting team, we both downsized and increased expectations.

0 (2h 29m 26s):
How did all these sales increase? By having fewer people, we had better people. That's how, and that also helps recreate the culture of the team so that we can have a new standard set of high performers because there's nothing that demotivates a high performer like a low performer who's still on the team. And so we went from two to four in terms of our expectation per day for the team in terms of sets, sales fix, I'm missing all my columns up now, it's gonna have to deal with it. We promoted one setter to lead nurture specialist. I was saying earlier that they were multitasking, right? So they're doing some setting and they're doing some lead nurture and that gets really hard for a team of six guys to split those things. We took one of the setters who was really good and made that person the lead nurture specialist who basically acted as the bridge for both the setting team and the closing team to basically coordinate and remind the people of their appointments.

0 (2h 30m 10s):
And we equipped that lead nurture specialist with one of our checklists for what that role needs to do to get the most people to show up. And I'm not gonna give you all 'cause of the long checklist. I'll give you two quick examples. One of them is doing a three-way intro once you have the set appointment between the setter and the closer and doing it via iPhone if you can because now you have a known person and an unknown person and a person that bridges the two. They might know show on Johnny over here, but not on the guy that they just spoke with. And so the idea is how can I bridge that gap and kind of make the association for them, add some trust. The other thing is that the closers morning of would remind them with either a voice memo or a video text personalized to them being like, Hey John, really excited for our appointment today. I saw your profile X, Y, Z personalized to you, really pumped forward.

0 (2h 30m 51s):
I think we might help you out. So that's just a couple of things that we have on that list that we had them implement and all do consistently and sales team fixed. Number five, boom is we optimized the sales scripts. I said earlier that the discovery was too surface level, so we Re-Scripted the discovery, made sure we were asking deeper, more meaningful questions. And a part of that is also bringing some of the objections to the front. It's much easier. And this is the, this is the terminology that our team uses, which is killing zombies, right? It's a lot easier to kill a zombie when it's far away than when it's on top of you if somebody's trying to bring up a zombie in the close. Another way of saying it is like you wanna diffuse the bomb before it goes off in the close in your face. So we solve the problem before we bring it up. Now this is actually something that we added to this part of the script, which is prior to the appointment we say, Hey, is there anyone else who'd be required to make a decision about this thing?

0 (2h 31m 34s):
If they say yes, then you say, cool, well let's push back the appointment. Let's get that person on That way you have all the decision makers present. So these are just little things, but like little 1% improvements over and over, over again is what yield these 50% boosts. And the third main change we did was that we drilled the team on looping. And looping is just a sales terminology for basically when you encounter an objection, handling the objection and then asking again, handle the objection, ask again, right? 'cause a lot of salespeople are afraid to ask if someone says no and they don't wanna ask again, right? And I can tell you this is that the number of sales you make is direct proportional. How many times you ask, there's ways to do it wrong and there's ways to do it, right? The idea is that you should be able to resolve the concern, right?

0 (2h 32m 14s):
So if someone says, I need to think about it, and you say, well what are your main concerns? And they say, well it seems really complicated. And you say, oh, what part specifically feels more complicated? And they're like, it's the whole tech thing. And we're like, oh, we also have a vendor that can actually fill that in. I think it's a couple bucks extra, but like we can just handle that for you. Does that solve the problem? And they're like, oh, okay. So you guys, you guys just handed that one part of it? Like, yeah, we'll hand that part of it for you. Cool. Now this is where the salesman says, great, you wanna move forward? Do you have your ID on you? Hey, what card do you want? Like you can just make the ask right after that. And so then at that point you might say, ready to move forward then. And they might say, this feels like a fast decision. It's like, oh well what makes it fast? How long have you been thinking about this? And they're like, well, I mean I just met you. And you say, well how long have you wanted to solve this problem?

0 (2h 32m 54s):
And then they would say, well, I mean a long time. It's like, well that doesn't sound like a fast decision at all. It sounds like you've already made the decision a long time ago you wanted to change. Now we're just acting on it. So now do you wanna move forward, right? Keep looping and continuing to resolve the concern. Ask again, resolve the concern. Ask again. Drum roll please. What happened in the real world? So let's go to the data. Alright, so in our first column we had 49% show rates after we implemented sales. Fix two, fixing the ad, targeting sales fix four, promoted one, lead setter to lead, nurture, specialist and sales fix. Three reduced the team size and reset expectations. Survey says, does we get a 70% boost? Which is almost exactly the KPI. And that's because when you do things that work, they work.

0 (2h 33m 36s):
So that was a 40% improvement in sales. And to be clear, this was just over two months. Alright? So some of these changes can happen real quick if you know what you're doing. The second change we had is our offer rate. And so here's what happened. Survey says 80%, we actually offered just about the same amount of people. Realistically what they were doing is offering people who weren't qualified. 'cause the sales team wanted to eat. And I get that like there's a human component here. They were offering people who were not qualified the deal 'cause they needed commissions, right? Which is what we were trying to fix with the targeting close rates. We went from 27% and 60 days later we were at 41%. So 1% above our benchmark. Alright? This is a 50% improvement in sales. So 40 and 50 kazam. Next up we have percentage of cash collected. A really good metric for knowing, knowing how strong the sales team is.

0 (2h 34m 18s):
And this is especially important for that early discovery portion and how good they are at looping and closing. Because the deeper you get the discovery, the the more convicted the buyer will be about the solution and the more likely they are to pay up front as a measure of their conviction in the solution. The survey says we went from 47 to 82%. So we almost doubled the amount of cash that we were collecting upfront per sale. In 60 days. We had a 40% improvement and we had a 50% improvement and we had a almost doubling of cash collected. So if we almost doubled the amount of sales that happened and we almost doubled the cash upfront collected, what do we do to the cash flow of the business? Four x ah, much more enticing.

0 (2h 34m 60s):
After we added all these four changes together and we waited 60 days, what happened? Survey says we went from 56 to 93 sales a month. And that was just from a few of these fixes on one particular part of the organization. I taught 116 sales professionals, my closing framework. And after implementing it, they increased how much they closed. Enjoy. Alex Becker, who's the, who's the founder of that, clued me in recently to something. He's like, dude, your your, your ROAS is insane 'cause he can see everyone's revenue and their ad spend. And I was like, oh, what do you mean? He is like, you have the highest return on ad spend of everyone in the entire platform by like a mile.

0 (2h 35m 40s):
And I didn't really ever think about it, but our lifetime return on advertising is 36 to one. So to do over, you know, a hundred and now, you know, five or 10 million whatever we're at now, we've spent just under $3 million in advertising. And so there's a lot of other pieces to, you know, making more. But just for everyone on this call, we're talking specifically about sales, correct?

5 (2h 36m 6s):
Yes. Yeah. So, so Alex,

0 (2h 36m 8s):
Yeah,

5 (2h 36m 8s):
Not, yeah, 99% of these guys are, are closers sweet and they're getting closing positions. A couple people are sorting like a closer agency where they partner with a guy like you and they're like, Hey, let's do like a little JV deal. I slammed your deals.

0 (2h 36m 21s):
Okay, sweet. Well then why don't I, so what I'm gonna do is, 'cause I do have a presentation, which is just how I think about sales. And I have the, the third part of the presentation about scaling sales teams. Does anyone here have multiple closures who work for them? Or is is most people just closing on your own right now?

5 (2h 36m 41s):
You guys gotta talk with Alex. You don't bite. I

0 (2h 36m 43s):
Also can't see, I can't see the chat. I can't see the chat either.

5 (2h 36m 47s):
We're working towards that,

0 (2h 36m 49s):
Alex. Okay, so how about this? I'll give you the things that, so Russell, when I first met him was like, dude, how did you learn how to sell so well? And it was because I looked at my CRM and I'd done 4,000 sales. One-on-one in fitness. And so that's a lot of reps. You know, I was taking 20 consults a day for like four years. And so that's in person face-to-face. My team would double or triple book me every 30 minutes. And I just sold the same thing over and over again. And because I was really good at sales, I ended up not hiring a ton of salespeople and I would actually have my managers set appointments for me all at one location. So I had six gyms. And so I would go there, they'd stack up an entire day, I'd mow down a whole day, go to a different gym and they'd been stacking all the appointments and I'd mow down.

0 (2h 37m 35s):
And so usually I do 20 to 25 consults a day. And you just get you, you know, you just get these reps in of reading people gauging tonality and seeing where you need to lean in and where you need to lean back. And so, you know, over time I've then started training salespeople and sales managers. I had a remote sales team. We'd fly, we'd fly out and do turnarounds like in person. So I had eight guys. We'd fly out to eight facilities every month and we'd turn these facilities around. 'cause I know Mike, you were in the fitness world before this. That's right. And then I brought that sales team in-house and they started doing phone sales for high ticket. So I've had, I've had in person phone, high ticket, low ticket. We've kind of done a lot of those things. I train mortgage leads teams. So kind of the whole gambit.

0 (2h 38m 16s):
And there's definitely some things that I've seen. You know, I've brought every sales product on the market. I bought grant stuff, bought Belfort stuff. And I think there's a lot of merit and there's a lot of good stuff out there. But in my experience, simplicity is what scales. And so I'll give you, if you're okay with it, I'll give you the few things that I have implemented consistently within my companies that have generated outsized returns. Is that cool? All right, sounds awesome. So what I'm gonna, let's rock and roll, let's get, alright, full jam. So as I said, simplicity, right? I'm the, the world's best graphic designer as you can see here. So I'm trying to show the, the real keys to the kingdom.

0 (2h 38m 58s):
So everybody here, is everybody here selling expensive stuff? Is that most people on this call? Yes, every, everybody's high taken. Alex, Dan, fantastic. All absolutely. Can everyone still see me and the screen? Yep. All rock and roll. Alright, so I'm guessing this guys, this is your first rodeo, not your first presentation with the sexy headline or big promise. And so if you have failed for you guys to grow your thing in the past, I promise you it's not your fault. Lots of information, very confusing. And you can sometimes be inundated with lots of different salespeople's information. You've got Mike here, who's a, who's a gem and knows his shit and you guys are lucky to have him. But in, hopefully in this presentation, I will put some of those fierce to rest of like, what if I'm never, what if I never make it?

0 (2h 39m 40s):
What if I never turn this corner and become the salesperson I want? What if I never hit the a hundred, a hundred grand a year? What if I never hit the a hundred grand a month? Or what if I, they don't hit the million a month goal that I have? And then what does that, what does that mean about me? Right? If you've ever thought those things, like I can tell you I did too, right after the instance that I had Mike with that individual and that individual drained my entire bank account and then sent it to their girlfriend in Sweden and then filed bankruptcy after that happened. I had $1,200 because I had sold all my gyms and put my money into that account. So I started at zero, which I'm very grateful for because it gave me the experience that i, I have now. And so what I'm gonna show you is that you can have a simple sales process that can yield outsized returns. A lot of people like to make this fancy because it makes it easier to sell stuff to people about selling.

0 (2h 40m 24s):
But these are the things that I have seen that have unlocked the growth for us because I don't think I'm the best marketer out there. I think we've simply attached a phone to a funnel and we've been very efficient at it. And so as a result of that, I've always been able to make more per customer than anyone else because of how efficient we are at the conversion process. All right? And so that's what we're here for. So I wanna show you exactly step by step our process for selling. All right? And so there should be two types of people here, some of you guys who are under a hundred thousand dollars a month. And I'll show you how to never compete on price again. All. And if you guys are over a hundred thousand dollars a month, I'll show you exactly what we did to scale a team to get to a million a month and and beyond. Is that cool? Yeah. Because if you're under a hundred, it's just you, right? If you're over a hundred, you need people. Alright? So it's kind of, kind of be like the actual selling itself and then the scaling of the sales.

0 (2h 41m 9s):
All right? So that's kind of the goal for the 60 minutes. I'll probably be able to get it done in 40 ish. I'll talk fast so we can have some time. All right, everyone can just listen fast. Is that all right? Alright, I'm gonna, yeah. Got it. So I've been really fortunate. Yeah, now we're at 1 0 5 or one 10 or whatever it is in, in selling stuff, which has been cool. What's been cooler is we've been able to donate to causes. You guys don't know my story, but I had a, I had a gym teacher after school who stayed with me. He didn't have to, he didn't know me from anybody and he worked out with me for an entire year and taught me how to work out because I was like a really insecure kid. And as a result of that, I got into fitness. And so I feel like it's all of our opportunity. 'cause a lot of you guys are on here. Like we're already in the top 1% in the world, you know what I mean?

0 (2h 41m 50s):
Like, we're bitching about not making a hundred grand a month. Like, fuck you, you know what I mean? Like really. And so it's been a great coverage to be able to give back and we've donated 1.4 million just in the last three years, actually. 1.7. Now I have to update that. But anyways, just the causes that we, that we care about. And so for us it's, it's kids being able to have the opportunity that we had. All right? And if you guys are in the fitness industry, Arnold was my heroes. The reason I quit my job. And I've been able to, you know, grow a friendship with him, which has been awesome. And we've had, you know, over a thousand clients hit a hundred thousand dollars a year using the sales framework. I'm gonna show you. All right? So like, if you can imagine that these people are not maybe as good as you are, you can imagine that somebody in that thousand is probably not as naturally talented, right?

0 (2h 42m 32s):
So the process works, okay? And we've had a lot of people over seven figures now, but it wasn't that way, right? So this is me. When I started my first gym, I slept on the floor. I had $5,000 total, my rent was $5,000. And so I had one month that I had to learn how to make money and I built a funnel. 'cause I had learned this from the internet and I was actually, I sent this picture to my dad 'cause I was so excited, I was so proud of this picture because I sold that many people in the first, in the first two weeks for free. And things started to grow, right? I had my, that was my, one of my gyms. I had nine employees. I felt like a badass. You know, my dad finally told me he thought I, you know, wasn't a schmuck for, you know, being an idiot and getting into fitness. So I, I thought I felt like I was figuring things out.

0 (2h 43m 13s):
And then all of a sudden Facebook slap happened. This is years ago, and there's been many slaps. Facebook just kind of, kind of has its, its its bitch hand proverbially swinging back and forth. But, you know, we got slapped and overnight my, my lead cost went up five x, right? And so my, my money, my money making rain turned into a desert. And the thing was, my marketing was losing money every day. And all I could think about was letting my dad down. And more realistically, having my dad be right, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, alright, cool. And so the question that I asked myself was like, how can I afford to get more leads, right? And so I called all my friends up and he had a, he was a brick and mortar gym owner, and he told me that things were going great for him. And I was like, what the hell, dude? What are you, what what are you doing? And he is like, dude, we just, we just attached a phone to the funnel.

0 (2h 43m 53s):
And I was like, no shit. He's like, we're selling expensive stuff on the front end now instead of selling trials. And I was like, well, that's cool, I'll do that. And so we went from losing two and a half, two to one to making 10 to one return on the front end, right? And what that meant from my business is I went from being able to break even at $10 a lead to be able to spend up a hundred, a hundred dollars a lead and still make money, which is crazy, right? And so then things started to grow again for me. And then we, you know, opened location after location and things grew. And I met this guy and I was, I was, I met, I joined his mastermind and I was trying to, I told him I wanted to create a nationwide gym, gym chain. And he said, you should teach other people how you do what you do and not grow that chain. And I was like, well, you make more money than me, so, okay, I'll listen. And so then I started making or doing our marketing system, Mike, this is by the way, at that guy's gym, I know 191 signups in 19 days.

0 (2h 44m 40s):
And that was the stack of contracts. Some of you guys may have seen this, it was like the most run ad for like a year and a half. But we did, I dunno, a hundred thousand dollars in, in 19 days in sales, like in the ghetto. All right? So these are the three frameworks. Sorry, I sped through that 'cause we had already covered a little bit of my story, or at least I wanted to get through it. And these are the three frameworks that I kind of discovered to scale high ticket. All right? And it'll take, if you're, if you're, if you're partnering someone with someone, then it'll help take their losing funnels and turn 'em into, into cash machines. And I mean that genuinely. All right? So the free three frameworks that I do is, one is the closure framework. All right? These are the questions that get prospects to say yes. All right? And so adding this to any kind of, any funnel process is gonna instantly make it more profitable, alright?

0 (2h 45m 19s):
And I'm gonna walk through the questions that we ask and specifically what only three things that you can say on a sales call period. It's the number one mistake that all the sales guys that even my guys make, and I have to remind them of. All right? The second thing is the conviction framework. So anyone who believes can outperform a seasoned sales rep by simply willing to control their tone. All right? So some of you guys right now, can I get a hand, I'm gonna unshare my screen real quick. Can I get hands on the screen of who here is newer to this, newer to high ticket sales? Okay, great. Perfect. Then this is for you. I'm gonna show you how you can beat the best sales reps. All right? And this is how I never ever hire seasoned closers, just FYI. No, no, it's not Mike. We're gonna trade trade salespeople, so I don't, but I'm gonna show you how you can beat seasoned, prep seasoned pros.

0 (2h 46m 4s):
All right? Alright, which if I can find my presentation, there we go by learning control your tone. And the last one is scaling. So for all of you guys who are over a hundred thousand dollars a month and need to scale a team, I'm gonna show you how to duplicate the skill in other people, alright? 'cause it's one level of the skill is learning to sell. Another level of the skill is teaching to sell. And it's a more valuable skill. So if you can duplicate your skill in someone else, that is how you can make 10 times, a hundred times more money because it's no longer, you're no longer constrained by your time. All right? So let's rock and roll, close your framework. So after pouring over like hundreds of scripts, like, I mean it, hundreds of scripts, I realize that there was always like these minor differences in wording, but if I hit these kind of main milestones along the way, I ended up closing the sale, right?

0 (2h 46m 51s):
And the nice thing is that this process works for B2C and B2B. So I don't know what stuff you're selling, but it works for both. And it worked for $500 tickets as much as a hundred thousand dollars tickets. The process is the same, right? And the way I teach my sales teams and now thousands of clients is this acronym, right? And, and like even when I'm thinking through sales calls, we use it, we're like closer C, right? L. So the C is clarify why the person is on the phone with you, right? That's the objective. Why are you here? Why'd you take the time to take the call? What's the problem, right? What are we trying to solve here After that? Then we're like, got it? So what I'm hearing is, you're struggling with this. Does that sound about right? I'm gonna label you with a problem. After that, we overview their past pain.

0 (2h 47m 33s):
So it's like, okay, so you have this problem, I can't be the first person you've talked to about this. Tell me a little bit about what you've done so far to try and try and get past this, right? Tell me more about that. How'd that work out for you? Okay, understood. After that, it's like, okay, so I'm hearing all these things. This is why you're here. This is what you're trying to get. This is what you've tried and hasn't worked. Okay, well, can I tell you about how I think we might be able to help solve your problem? This is where we solve the vacation, right? And then finally, or step before, finally we explain away their concerns. So this is where we tell 'em about the program, and then we're like, do you wanna do it? They say yes or no. If they say no, then we explain away their concerns. So they say yes. And then once they say yes, we reinforce the decision. And this last r here is a point that I added years later because we realized that the sale, the sale just continues throughout the entire customer relationship, right?

0 (2h 48m 21s):
And so for you guys, if you're dealing with clients who you're selling for, you have to also sell them on continuously selling, right? You might have closed the card or closed the first payment, but their onboarding experience, they gotta close 'em again. And then after that, when they have their first week check-in call, they gotta get closed again, because we have to consistently sell them on why they should do anything. Why should they not just watch Netflix? Why should they, why should they take action? Why should they have the discomfort of getting, you know, smacked on the phone by a stranger, right? Why should they, why should they feel the the sting of failure? We have to sell them consistently to help 'em overcome their pains, right? And so I'll show you some of these more closely. So clarifying why they're there, right? It's like, what made you come in today? What made you reach out? What's your goal right now? Why is that important to you?

0 (2h 49m 2s):
Right? Okay. Helping me understand what, what do you, what are we doing here, right? This is one where someone in the the beginning, like, you have to hit this. Because if someone says like, you know, I just wanted to find out more information, you're like, cool, but why? Like, what did you want the information to solve? What was the, like, I'm sure you don't just go around collecting information all day, right? Like, there's something you're trying to get out of this. What's the problem? And then they, and then you get what you need. You're like, got it. Okay, so just so I'm hearing you right, it sounds like this is your goal. Correct? Then they acknowledge they have a problem. This is important. 'cause they have to say it, they have to own it. I can't cure cancer until you admit that you have it, right? We gotta give it to you before we can cure it. After that, we overview the past, right? So it's like, what have you tried so far to accomplish this?

0 (2h 49m 43s):
How long did you do it for? How long ago? How did that work for you? What else have you tried? We call this the pain cycle, right? We consistently do this over and over again until we've exhausted all options, right? At that point, we have tons of ammo that we can use later in the close, which I'm sure you're aware of, right? And the big piece here is we explain how it's not their fault. Because if they had this missing piece or two of the equation, they were halfway there. They were three quarters of the way there. They were just missing this one piece, which we're going to provide for them, right? And the nice thing is, is for most of you, hopefully you're selling it up a holistic solution, right? So for example, I'm gonna use a fitness example. 'cause Mike's from, from that background too. If someone came in and said they tried workouts in the past, I'm gonna be like, I'm not telling you don't that you don't need to work out.

0 (2h 50m 23s):
It's great. But you also need the nutrition and the accountability, right? You need nutrition to make sure they stop eating shit. Because if you just start working out and eating donuts, it's not gonna work, right? Of course. Now, if I meet you the best plan in the world, but you don't follow, it's not gonna work either. That's why you need the accountability, and that's what I'm here for. And so from that point, that's kind how you can naturally transition. So it's like, I'm hearing these things, this is what you're missing. Well, do you wanna hear how the program works? Because I think we might be able to solve that for you. They'll say yes. All right. So what we've seen is that there's three things that make clients successful, right? And at this point, this is my belief is that three things has been, you know, unequivocal in most pitches is that I think it's human brain is that you can't take more than three, but typically it's like three pillars to the, to the stool or three, you know, finish nutrition, accountability. If I was selling leads, I'd want 'em to be, you know, timely, you know, qualified and you know, exclusive, right?

0 (2h 51m 11s):
So there'd be three elements to make what makes a good lead, right? There's, there's always three that you can usually find when you're selling a solution. And most times, not most times, every time, if you're on the phone with the prospect, you always have the upper hand because they have admitted at the beginning of this phone call that they have a problem. They have not solved it. And so inherently they're going to be missing one of the keys. They cannot have them all, or they would not be on the phone. So you have a, you, you, you were in an, in an unusable situation unless you choose to lose it, right? Unless you choose to lose the frame. And so in this instance, it has been my experience that we use stories short anecdotal stories to, to, to break the belief of the prospect around a topic. What's important here is that we don't get into jargon, right?

0 (2h 51m 54s):
We don't get into techno babble and talking about the program and the modules and the the things they're going to do because all of that sounds like work. And that's not what they're there for. They're there for a result, right? And so instead, I would say something like with the fitness nutrition accountability, like I said earlier. So if I was trying to explain accountability, I'd be like, listen, you don't have accountability. When you were a kid, did you ever like, have your parents tell you to brush your teeth? They were like, yeah. I'm like, you know how you're like, no, I don't want to, I don't want to. And they would tell you, oh no, you gotta go brush your teeth. And you, and you go and you brush your teeth and you sulk back to bed, and next night you do the same thing. They'd say, you brush your teeth, you go brush your teeth, go back to bed. But you're an adult now, right? You brush your teeth and they're like, yeah.

0 (2h 52m 34s):
And that's because you had external accountability that turned into an internal habit, right? And that's what we're gonna do for you here, right? So I didn't tell them about fucking the coaching call that they're gonna have and the posts that they're gonna have and the blah blah blah. What we told them is the result of that, we gave them an anecdotal story that made sense to them or that's probably a really key point I just wanna drive home here, is that when you have your pitch part, it shouldn't be longer than three minutes like tops because no one really gives a shit. And at the end of the day, the reason they're gonna buy is gonna be because of how understood they feel. So how much, when you went through that overview of the pain, you were able to restate back to them accurately exactly how they felt and the struggles they're experiencing, which is why you need to shut the fuck up when they're talking.

0 (2h 53m 20s):
Right? And so there's only three things that are ever said on a sales call. So you guys know what they are. There's only three things that ever come outta your mouth. Questions restatements and anecdotal stories, which is the story that I just referenced. The three stories that we'll use to break a belief. That's it. So this, so that's how you sell them the vacations. You have these little sound bites, right? I'll give you another example. So if I was doing, if I was doing food right? I'm like, listen, three parts of the program, fitness research, accountability. So nutrition wise, you've got to eat stuff that's gonna make you lose weight. Can we agree on that? Yes. Okay, cool. But the problem is you don't want to do that, right? That's why we're here, right?

0 (2h 54m 1s):
Right. Okay. So let me ask you a question. When do you feel like, what's your favorite TV show? They're gonna be like, whatever Game of Thrones. You're like, okay, game of Thrones. Do you feel like you need to get like motivated to watch Game of Thrones? You're like, man, I was trying to watch it tonight, but I just couldn't, you know, I just, I just, I got really busy and I just couldn't sit down on the couch and turn the TV on. I couldn't do it right? Of course not, because you look forward to it because you wanted to do it. And the key that we're gonna do here is we're gonna get you to look forward to the foods that you're eating. 'cause if you look forward to it, you don't need to be motivated 'cause you do it on your own 'cause you like it. Does that make sense? Great. Great. So what I didn't talk about the macros and the carb cycling and the intermittent fasting and the calorie counting and the blah blah blah, blah, blah.

0 (2h 54m 44s):
Because at the end of the day that does not matter. What they want is for them to solve the problem and have it be pain free, right? And that's what we're explaining to them. So that's selling the vacation, right? And this is a setting that I've used for a long time, which is sell a vacation, not the plane threat, right? And so this is what everyone else talks about. They're like, sir, for us to get you these results, you're gonna have to have to take your pants off. You're gonna have to jump through this loop. You're gonna have to go through the TSA, the airport lines, pack your suitcases, take your shoes off, do the layovers, connect your flights, have a person farting next to you. Don't worry they don't have covid, you'll have turbulence probably on the plane. Then as soon as you're out, you think you're done. But you still have to wait a baggage game. They probably lost your bag. Right? And in our world, it's your modules, your meal plan, your macros, your workouts, your support team, your URLs, your domains, your funnels, your targeting, your ads and the other shit that doesn't matter, right?

0 (2h 55m 28s):
But instead what they want is you sell Maui final destination and you always sell the same thing because the difference is only the level of service in how they wanna get there, right? If you have multiple levels of service. So do they wanna swim to Maui to where they're trying to go, there's sharks and you could drown or get robbed, right? Like this chick crazy. Do they wanna take a boat to Maui? It'll take a little longer, but there's no shark attacks but there's still no wifi and you're kind of, you know, in the sun. Do you wanna take a normal flight to Maui, get there a little faster, still smells bad, has security bad food, but you're gonna get there. Or do you wanna take a private jet to Maui, right? Direct nonstop champagne in the plain suitcases packed when you arrive, right? And so that's the selling piece. E is explaining away their concerns.

0 (2h 56m 9s):
And so these are the questions that sound like, so there's, I'm sure Mike has already taught you a lot of the, the obstacle overcome concepts, right? So fundamentally there's, there's three big ones, right? Price. And rather than teach you like the, the the, the drilling of the obstacles, I told you there's two things you need to memorize. One of them are the stories. The second are the obstacle overcomes, right? Because those are the things that you're in the red zone. Like that's not where you start thinking about what you're gonna say. Right? So the two things that you need to memorize as a salesperson are the stories about what you sell and the obstacles that you're going to encounter when you're in the red zone. The questions on the front end, you need to know the milestones you need to hit in order to move forward.

0 (2h 56m 50s):
And this is one of the big mistakes I'm sure Mike talks about a lot, which is you need to sit in the pain. If someone does not clarify why they need a solution, you do not ask for the sale. If they're, if we just say, Hey, you know why, what brought you to here today? I just wanna find out more information. Okay, cool. So you know, lemme tell you about the program. Like that's not, we didn't get the fucking like we don't know why they're there. We don't know what their goals are. Like one of the things drives me nuts about my team sometimes is I'm like, dude, we're eight minutes in the conversation. I was like, I don't know how many clients they have. I don't know what their revenue is. I don't know what their profit is. I don't know what their biggest pain and struggle is right now. I'm like, whatcha are doing? I'm like, you just told them. They're like, oh Jim launch is a hundred million dollar company. I'm like, they don't give a shit but they do my sales guys 'cause they get their egos puffed up, right?

0 (2h 57m 33s):
But it has nothing to do with the prospect. They do not care, right? They only care about them. So, right. That's right. Yeah. That's, that's the issue, right? Everyone talks way too much about the product. And so when you're training salespeople, you don't train them on the product, you train them on the prospect. Hmm, the product doesn't matter. I mean it matters obviously from like how you're gonna make money 'cause you have to do a good job. 'cause I'm gonna get that in the second point. But in terms of when you are selling and training someone, if you guys know someone or know a spec specific niche really well, then you will know their pains. And if you have a new salesperson, you hear them say shit and you're like, that's not what he thinks. What is he doing? He might know the product perfectly, but he just said that the guy's problem was not the problem.

0 (2h 58m 16s):
And so then it doesn't matter what the product is 'cause he doesn't feel like it's for him even though it's totally for him, but you just disarticulated the problem. That's where the clarity has to happen. If you nail that, the rest of the pitch is easy, right? And so the key here is relying on past agreements that have already been made. So this person with their partner, with their spouse, with their bus, you know, whatever has ar, that person knows that there's a problem and they also don't approve of that problem. And so why would they be in any way against remedying a problem that they already don't approve of, right? And then finally we always tack on, sometimes it's better ask for forgiveness than permission, right? Ha ha ha. Depends on the ticket sale, right? But you can get those in, right? And then obviously last, last case here is you just do a delayed close and say let's get your card down.

0 (2h 59m 1s):
We can put a down payment, we can pay the rest on Friday. And if between now and then, you know, your partner comes back and says, no man, I wanna be poor. I wanna keep struggling and like I want to never make money and like continue to do this for the rest of our lives, then I'll absolutely tear up the contract. Don't worry about it. Right? Finally, you've got stalls, right? I need to think about it. So these are, because people don't, people are afraid of making mistakes, right? People are afraid of making mistakes and because of that they don't like making decisions because it's easier to let life make the decision for you. And so they like doing it that way because then they feel like it's not their fault, right? And so, I mean a great obstacle over for this is what's your main concern?

0 (2h 59m 43s):
Which is usually my number one thing I go to when someone's like, I need to think about it. It's like totally what's your main concern, right? Let's think about it together, right? And so fundamentally these are the things that they need to know. Do you feel like what we're doing can meet your needs and solve the problem? Yes or no? Yes. Do you wanna work with us as a company? Do you like our values? Do you like what we stand for? Do you believe what we believe about the world? Yes. Do you have access to funds or know someone who does? Yes. Well then let's rock and roll because those are the only things we know to me that make the decision, right? Do you like the product? Do you like us? And do you have the money to do it? That's it. Simple as that, right? And so when we walk through those, if you encounter these situations, obviously there's, you know, if you're gonna do it now sooner or later you might as well.

0 (3h 0m 26s):
Like there's plenty of things to say, but I think it's more important to understand the theory behind why someone has this objection, right? They have an objection around price because they don't see the value because you didn't articulate it. They have an objection around decision maker usually 'cause you fucked something up earlier in the sale, but at this point you're in the red zone so you gotta deal with it. So you rely on past agreements. If they come with a stall, then you help 'em confront a decision and make a logical choice and teach them how to make a decision that in that moment you'll say, what are you most afraid of happening? I'm afraid of you just you're afraid of me taking the money, right? Just taking your money and you getting nothing right again. Well let me tell you how that's not gonna happen, right? You can bring their concerns, all right? And then finally they say yes and you're like awesome.

0 (3h 1m 6s):
And this is where if you're selling for someone else, get 'em to send a personalized video. Like, Hey Johnny saw you just signed up with us today. Super pumped to have you. You're gonna be meeting with Heather tomorrow, she's gonna get you kicked off. You should in the mail get a special gift. So keep lookout for that. And then, you know, send a handwritten card. If someone just bought a really expensive thing, people are making their decision about whether they believe in you as a company within the first 48 hours after the sale. They make a decision of whether or not they're willing to be with you in the long term that and how they're treated in the first 48 hours after they give you money. So it's critical and it's usually in that point that people fuck up and just ignore them. Framework two. And you know, Mike, I can stop. I'll just do framework two and then we can do the q and a because if I don't have time to scale the sales teams, I can hit on the points later.

0 (3h 1m 50s):
So this is a big one for everyone who is, who's newer to sales, all right? If you believe you can outperform the seasoned sales rep by learning control your tone, all right? And so I reworked all of our scripts into the closer framework. And the thing is, is immediately some people were crushing it, right? While others were still not selling shit. And I was like, what the fuck? Right? And so I talked to my friends and they were like, dude, you should read this book by Jordan Buffer. And the biggest thing that I got from the book was just he was very specific about tonality. And that was a big shift for me in just learning to teach how to ask the question, not just asking the question, right? And so in the book he talks about having this same issue that I had was scaling sales.

0 (3h 2m 32s):
It's like I give the script to two guys. Some guy crushes, some guy doesn't. I'm like, what the fuck? Right? And the thing is, is there's the hidden dialogue that the sales team does not know that they're talking in, right? And so the words are not going to be enough, alright? They're just literally 10%. So the words that you have, it might be the most test descrip in the world. It's still only 10%, 90% is how you say the words, right? Because how you say what you say is tonality. Like right now I could give everyone heres, you know, Jerry Seinfeld's standup script. You could read it, it wouldn't be funny, right? Because it's not just that you had the script, it's how you deliver it, right? And that takes time to develop, right? And that's kind of unconscious mastery.

0 (3h 3m 13s):
And so there's two ways to do this, alright? That I have found. You can either trick yourself into it or you can train yourself to do it all right? And since we don't have enough time to, to train on the influence of tonalities, here's the trick that I teach, all right? Conviction will correct your tone conviction made real. So let me tell you this story. So I was, I was brought in to do a day of consulting for this mortgage leads company to train their sales team. And the first half of the day I reworked the whole script, I put the closer framework, made it a question based sale. And then I came in and they were expecting me to like rain, you know, fire and brimstone on these guys. And so I sat down and I was like, who's the guy you're having the most trouble with? It was this guy John.

0 (3h 3m 53s):
So I was like John and they were selling leads. I was like, John, I'll go to the leads. He was like, well, you know, and I was like, we're good thanks. And I was like, let me show you how you would answer it if you actually believe that the leads were good. I was like, you'd say like, dude, these leads are fucking unbelievable right now I'm studying for my real estate exam so I can get in on these leads. My aunt is realtor and she has more business that you can handle. And I'm sending her traffic. I'm trying to get my, my, my brother to do it with me. I'm not sure how long I'm gonna work here. 'cause these leads are killing it for us, right? If you believe in the product, you don't need to have all the sales skills, you'll do it the right way because you'll actually want to help the person.

0 (3h 4m 33s):
So that's why the most important part of the sale is the product. Because unless you are a malicious person, like most people here, everyone here have some level of ethics on some level. Like no one here just wants to like take someone's last dollar, right? So then the only way to sell hard, 'cause if you're gonna close, you gotta sell hard. The only way to sell hard is to believe through and through balls to bones. When you look at yourself in the mirror at night, and this is what I talked about when Mike said at the very beginning, like what happens when people start hating on you? The only way that I've been able to stay where we're at in the gym industry, Mike knows the amount of hate that I get, right? The only way I will do that is that I read the testimonials, the thousand of them that I have of gyms who have gone to six figures of the hundred gyms we've taken to seven figures, right?

0 (3h 5m 18s):
Like I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that our product works. I also know that if you sign up for a gym, not everyone loses weight. And I'm willing to deal with that. I, I'm willing to give everyone the opportunity to change their life. So here's the tactics around this. Reread testimonials out loud daily in front of your sales team, all right? And if the business that you're working for doesn't have testimonials, find another business. All right? I'm serious. You're not gonna be able to close unless you're un like literally, unless you're unethical, you're not gonna be able to close. So go find something that is a good product because there's plenty of them out there. Alright? Find a good product that you believe in and you just see tons of testimonials and then read those every day in front of the team.

0 (3h 5m 58s):
Alright, second, well this is for the business owners, but fix everything you possibly can about the product, alright? And never blame a customer for lack of success. So as much as there are people who have not been successful who've used gym launch, I still take the fact that they were not successful And I think what could I have done that would've made the next person like them successful? And you plug the hole, right? If you do that over and over and over and over again, you know truly at the end of the day when you look at yourself in the mirror when no one else is watching, whether or not you truly put the effort forth that merits the price that you are charging, right? And only you can know that. And the thing is, is like the reason salespeople get beat up is because they don't put the work in and then it grates on their soul and then eventually they burn out.

0 (3h 6m 42s):
They burn out. Not because they can't handle no, but because they can't handle how they feel about themselves, right? And so you have to put the work in to have the conviction because that's what's gonna get you through it. If you've ever met someone who's a born again Christian, alright? They're convicted. They do not care how many people tell them to shove it because they are trying to save people's souls. It's real. Like if you let that hit you, it's real. You know what I mean? And if you can be a disciple of whatever the product that you have an evangelist in the truest terms, then all the scripting stuff, it won't matter. Why are some of the best salespeople, clients who had success because they believe in it.

0 (3h 7m 23s):
That's it. And the most convicted person will always win the fight, right? They'll always lead the dance because they have conviction in their skepticism. You have conviction in your product and one of you is going to win out, right? And it's, the question is, whose belief is stronger? 'cause belief isn't binary, it's not. Do I believe or do I not believe it's how much do I believe? To what extent do I believe, would I bet a thousand dollars on this product? Would I bet $10,000 on this product? Would I sell my mother this product about it? If you would sell your mother this product, how convicted are you? Probably very. And you will have no problem closing deals and notice that I have a lower tone right now so that you listen to the words that I'm saying so that you think that they're important in terms of the training schedule.

0 (3h 8m 8s):
60 minutes a day, five days a week. My guys do world class sales training. They text me in the morning before they wake up, they text me once they're done, they do the first 25 minutes, they read the script out loud, five minutes, they drill obstacles. I need to think about it, I need to talk to my partner. This is expensive. And then they talk, they they drill the second half, right? As a closure, you gotta talk, you gotta listen, you gotta train both skills, right? The talking's, the tone and saying the words the right way and the right sequence without having to think about it. The listening is going over a recording and figuring out what went right, what went wrong and what we're gonna do next time. And saying it, drilling it as a team, marking it and moving to the next one. That's the short answer. We 10 xd the recurring revenue and one of my portfolio companies by using what we call the diagnostic sale.

0 (3h 8m 51s):
There are seven steps that you can use to follow the script and apply it to your business. Enjoy. I crossed a hundred million dollars in net worth by age 32. I sold my first big company for 46.2 million. And the reason we're able to do that is 'cause we know how to grow companies. And so now I buy companies at a lower price, I grow them and then we sell them. And so I wanna talk to you about one of the companies we just bought. We bought them a year and a half ago I think, or a year ago they had 14 locations. So it was a chain of brick and mortar. And since then we've gone from 14 to 32 locations. And the reason we're able to do that is because we focused on the sales process and through a process that I wanna walk you through something that I call the diagnostic sale.

0 (3h 9m 32s):
We're able to 10 x the recurring revenue of the business across all the locations. So before we get into the nitty gritty of the story, let me just walk you through the steps in the diagnostic process. First is we like to have some sort of pre-sale questionnaire, which the purpose of that is to get more information that arms to sales person so they know who they're talking to, what their pains are, but from the sales perspective for them they also increase their awareness of the problem. Second is we get their information in their credit card, which is key and I'll explain why it later. Third is we wanna understand what their current situation is. Where are you at today? Then we have your desired state. So where would you like to be at? And then what's the obstacle? Why aren't you there? And then finally, once we have these big three, we present the desired state and our vehicle to overcome the obstacle and we tie our price to the way that we're gonna get them there.

0 (3h 10m 15s):
And then finally we give them an incentive to prepay. So here's the five steps that we follow to actually get this done. So number one is that we secret chopped the business. So we actually looked into it, we went there. By the way, you should secret shop your own business. Highly recommend doing it. You'll be horrified by what you hear your sales guy say. You're like, I thought we had a script. What are you even doing? Number two is from there, this is basically information gathering. We figure out what the constraint is, okay, where do we think there's big opportunities in the business? Now you should think about yourself as your own business consultant. If you could buy your business today and look at your business, what would be the no duh thing that you would do? Now for this particular business, we thought that they had an offer constraint, which really came down to packaging. We had offer slash packaging because fundamentally we're not gonna change the core of the business.

0 (3h 10m 58s):
We're not gonna all of a sudden start selling soap when you sell hvac. Like is that's not gonna happen, right? So the core of the business can remain unchanged. It's how we're going to package the services we deliver or that the services we sell to a customer. How are we gonna get them to perceive what we're selling? We gathered the data, we figured out the constraint was that they should get way more re-booking, which I thought was an offer and packaging issue, which is we need to sell the solution, sell the goal. And so number four is, okay, if we assume that we're gonna make this new transition to this new new offer, new packaging, we have to anticipate. So you can, we call it killing zombies. Which is one way of putting it, you anticipate the obstacles or objections that people are gonna throw at you ahead of time. Write this in neon marker or above your sales team, which is it's way harder to get someone to buy after you presented the price because now they're like, he's trying to sell me.

0 (3h 11m 48s):
So we have to counter that before we become salespeople in their mind we are a trusted expert, ideally if we're positioned well and you should be that way if you know what you're talking about. And I like to use the frame of child-like curiosity. I always tilt my head. I probably even did it subconsciously just now you tilt your head when you ask the question because it's non-threatening, you're like, huh, that's weird. What changed between then and now just so I understand. Then they can tell you, rather than be like you said that your husband says he supports you, you can't say that now you have to buy, it doesn't work that way. If you win the argument in a sale, you lose the sale. The only way that you win the sale is being willing to lose being, right? And so the fifth step, and this is the ongoing step, is that you implement the diagnostic sales process.

0 (3h 12m 29s):
So it's implementation. So now that I just outlined the five steps, let me deep dive into the implementation of the actual business and how we did this with this particular business. When we bought them, I spent four hours with our director of sales and we outlined the new sales process we wanted to implement. And as soon as we implemented that sales process, we four xd, LTV progression, meaning how much people paid us, it went from 200 to 800. So really big jump. And we, the crazy thing about this is that we didn't change what we delivered, we only changed how we presented it. And so this is the key of how we create value, how we scale companies, how we grow companies. And many companies keep these things as secrets as their special sauce.

0 (3h 13m 12s):
And I just fundamentally believe that the more we put out, the more we get back. And so that's why I operate this way. Alright, so I'll hold nothing back. And this is something that I call the diagnostic sales process. Now to be very clear, the diagnostic sales process is one of two different sales or maybe three different sales processes. Big picture that you can have in a business. One is a transactional sale all the way on this extreme. So on one side you've got transactional sales and on this side you've got enterprise sales, which is like relational sales. Like if you think of like you're selling some big fortune 500 company, you have to get stakeholders involved, get budget approval, there's all that stuff. And on transactional side, you've got like high velocity sales, we're talking 20, 30 minute sales.

0 (3h 13m 57s):
A guy who stands over the car wash, sells car wash, somebody sells gym memberships, transactional. And then you've kind of got like this middle where you might sell something that's a little bit higher ticket but it's a little bit more custom right? Now what we did was I took their sale from here, a purely transactional sale and moved it towards custom. Right? Now in a transactional sale, you typically fit the customer to the product. And so let's say that I sell pets, alright? So I sell pets. If somebody comes in, I'm going to basically spend all my effort listening to what they say they want and then telling them how this pen fits their needs. Or I have to basically say, your needs are wrong, let me educate you more and this actually solves all your problems, right?

0 (3h 14m 39s):
And so those are pretty much the only two approaches you can take in a transactional sale. Now the advantages of having this type of sale is that it's really fast. They tend to be lower ticket in general. And from an operational perspective in the business you don't need to personalize anything. And so you get the sales team and the sales process to basically orient everyone like a funnel down to one solution. And then you just make a ton of these solutions and you get lots of efficiencies because you only have to produce one thing. This the custom sale is a harder sale, sorry, easier sale to do, but harder on the operational side. And so the magic happens when you can actually bridge the product component of transactional, which you say, okay, we only sell these types of widgets, this is the only thing we deliver, but I can do it in a way that feels custom, feels personalized.

0 (3h 15m 29s):
Alright? So I'm gonna give you two examples and I'll explain this one in a second. This chart that I have here, which if you could take your recurring revenue from that to that, just by changing how you sell. If you'd wanna do that, hang tight, we're gonna break that into the process. So if I had, 'cause I did this in the gym, in the gym world too, which is part of why our gyms make more money. So a traditional sale looks something like this. Someone comes in, so this is traditional and you say we have membership that's, you know, whatever, $99 per month, all right, that's your membership. And you say our membership has this, this, this and this. And you want that, right? Because it's gonna help you accomplish all your dreams. Okay?

0 (3h 16m 9s):
Sometimes you get people, sometimes you don't. But what I do, we do something called a diagnostic. And so the first thing is that when the person walks in the door, we get them to fill out a presale questionnaire. And so that's like an application in a digital process. But an in-person process, it follows the same logic, which by the way, internet businesses follow local businesses. Local businesses can also model internet businesses. When you find out something works in one place, which I think has been one of the big advantages of I've had in business is I try and put it in a completely different place. And it often works too if you understand the concept. And so we fill out a presale questionnaire. Now the presale questionnaire simply walks them through all the reasons they walked in today and it asks them the same question in multiple different ways.

0 (3h 16m 51s):
So it's like, hey, like what brought you in today? What's the problem you're dealing with? How long have you been dealing with it? If you had to quantify how much this has cost you financially, what would it be if it continued for five years, how much worse would the situation be? And so the whole point is we're trying to agitate, tame, we're trying to bring attention to this problem and elevate its importance. So that's what the presale questionnaire does. Now the second thing is we get info. And this is very key. So when someone comes in after that we say, Hey, I want to, I wanna set up your account profile. And so when you do that, you collect their information and this is the key part, you get their credit card, now you're like, wait a second, I'm getting a credit card but I haven't sold anything. Exactly.

0 (3h 17m 31s):
And you do that so that when you do sell something later, you don't have to ask for it. Now you get the pre-sale, they're like, wow, I really do need this thing. You say, Hey, let me complete your customer profile, standard procedure, no big deal. Alright? Then you get their info. Now if they're like, well I don't want to give you my credit card, you're just like, it's just how the system works, it's how we complete profiles and then they'll give it to you. Alright? So from there, this is the, this is where the special, the special magic that's unique to each individual business happens. So in the weight loss business, I wanna understand where their goal at. So you wanna say what's current? And then four, what's desired?

0 (3h 18m 11s):
Where are you now, where would you like to be? And then this one, you ask them say, what's the obstacle? What's in between these two things Is the obstacle, right? Current, I've got an obstacle getting in the way of my desired. That's all we're asking in the process. Now in weight loss and in most businesses, the thing the person thinks is in the way is often not the real thing in the way. And that's because they've never had this conversation before. They clearly haven't solved the solution and that's why they're coming to you. And so you wanna just get their words more so so that you can explain it back to them using the language they gave you. Alright? And so in the weight loss world, for example, instead of selling a membership, I would say, okay, well it sounds like you need these three things.

0 (3h 18m 56s):
Fitness, nutrition, accountability, fitness wise, you need to work out x days a week nutrition wise, you need to eat this food at this time and we can help you meal prep the stuff. So you got, when you go out to restaurants, you can still stick on it and you need accountability. 'cause if you don't, if you do, if you, if I give you the best fitness plan and the best nutrition plan, but you don't show up, doesn't matter, right? Accountability is what makes the whole thing work. Great fitness, nutrition, accountability, easy three step framework, fantastic. Now this is where it becomes diagnostic. Now most customers, and this is why this is where the magic happens, is that even if you still deliver the same thing, so fundamentally when I switch the sales process, the gyms remain the same. They still have workouts, they still have nutrition home, they still have accountability. Nothing changed, but how we present it changes.

0 (3h 19m 38s):
And so rather than saying, Hey, I'm gonna sell a four week thing or a six week thing, I say, Hey, you're currently 200 pounds. Okay, now what's your high school weight? She says, I want to, I wanna get to one 40. You say, okay cool, you wanna get to one 40, this is your desired, okay? So you have a 60 pound difference. Now what we found is that we don't want people to lose more than pound and a half to two pounds a week. Alright? So let's just be conservative and call it one and a half. So then I take out my calculator and I say, what's one and a half times 60, which would be other way around, it'd be 65 by one and a half, which is 45. Okay? So 45 weeks is how long it's gonna take us to take you from 200 to one 40.

0 (3h 20m 23s):
So you lose a pound and a half a week, it's gonna take 45 weeks. And so six present price in relation to goal. So you say, awesome, so we currently charge nine, nine bucks a week. We can get you there in 45 weeks, which means it's $4,500. And that means, and for us, I added a, a guarantee on the backend, which is, which said, hey, if you show up to the workouts for the next 45 weeks and you log your food and you don't lose the weight, I'll keep working with you for free until you do. So that means this is the translation, this is the key part in the script. So that means when you pay this $4,500, it means that you can count that weight for good.

0 (3h 21m 3s):
You can put it outta your mind, you pay me this money, we're gonna get there One way or another, as long as you follow the steps, you're gonna follow the steps, right? Great. And so here you're trying to sell 99 bucks a month or, or whatever, this would be 99 bucks a week if it, if I was doing equivalent pricing, right? So this would be like a semi-private program. But by positioning it this way, I'm not selling a membership anymore. I'm selling exactly what they want. And putting a price tag on it and saying, you wanna get to one 40, it's gonna take this long and I'll guarantee that you that you'll get there provided you follow these steps. And then they say, wow, that's awesome. And you say, well if you want, I can save you a little bit of money.

0 (3h 21m 44s):
You wanna save a little bit of money. And they're like, yeah, I wanna save a little bit of money. Well if you prepay, you can save 10% today so I can save you 450 bucks. You wanna do that? That's what most people do. Great. You wanna, you wanna use the cards you have in file done. So that's, that's the process. Now I took this process and applied it to a completely different service business that we own. That's a chain that this is a little bit more medical, but the concept still applied, which is, and this is the key part, is you have to figure out for whatever it is that you sell, what the current is versus what the desired is. So if I were a painter, alright, and I was painting houses, sounds crazy, right?

0 (3h 22m 29s):
You say, Hey, so you currently have this thing, you want a completely painted house. And so the like, now for them, this is like more us do it for you rather than self-service. Like I'm gonna have to like they, you're not painting your house and them helping you, so they're actually gonna paint the house. So then we just try and think how can we, how can we, how can we sell to goal and break it into a price that we tie to that? And so it'd be like, okay, so we're gonna need four coats of paint and instead of take this period of time and then at that point your, your whole house is gonna be weatherproofed. And so that means that when you pay this price, that's what you're gonna get by this date. And if we don't get it done by that date, I'm gonna give you this.

0 (3h 23m 10s):
And that way we can relieve their risk that it's not gonna happen. And we tie the purchase to the outcome. So this particular business, when I bought it or bought into it, it was a business that they had really good lead gen and they have a good product, but they didn't have good packaging. And I saw the opportunity because I knew that if I installed my sales process into their business, I could make it make a lot more money. And so if you have the opportunity to like four XA business without opening new locations, you do that. And so that's more or less what we did. So I actually wrote down the new sales process took me four hours. So I wrote down the new sales process and then I presented it to the management team and they were like, wow, this is the most valuable thing we've ever had happen to our business.

0 (3h 23m 54s):
And I said, great. So let me know when you do it across all the locations and let's keep buying and opening new ones. And so 18 months later we have 32 locations and the recurring revenue in that time period has gone up. And the average revenue per customer went from $200 to $800 from this one process. And that was because before this they were selling one-off transactions. They were saying, Hey, we'll do this service for you. So think of it like Botox or we're gonna do filler or we're gonna do something this one time. And so rather than just say, sure, give us a call when you want it again, which is pretty much what the process was before this. I say, Hey, you wanna look a certain way, you're not here 'cause you want filler, you're because you wanna look a certain way.

0 (3h 24m 39s):
So if I show this chart to you of faces and filler den, where, where do you see yourself on here currently? Now you let them self identify. You can't be like, look bitch, you're ugly. You can't say that. So you gotta say, where are you on this chart? And then they say this now in the weight loss sale, I got them to step on the scale. The scale called you fat, not me. All right? So maybe just point to the third party, not me. So so so you get them to pick how ugly they're all right. And then you say, how pretty do you wanna be? Now everyone's gonna say, I wanna be super pretty. But here's the beautiful thing. When they pick how pretty they wanna be, they're the one who set the goal and that means that the price came from them. And you know, where I picked this up was yogurt stores. So one of the things I thought was genius about like yogurt land and things like that was if, if you go to a store and then they fill up your stuff behind the counter and then they say, Hey, it's eight bucks, you're like man, what the hell?

0 (3h 25m 28s):
This place is so expensive. But if they give you the cup and you fill it up and you put it on the scale, you're like, man, I'm a fat ass. Same pricing. But because I had control over what I picked, I'm the one who's responsible for the decision. And so by saying where are you on this chart? And again, this is where the magic happens. I see current desired, that's where the thinking behind how I'm gonna structure a sale is where like that's where the, that's where the experience, that's where the expertise, that's where it comes in. This is the process. And hopefully you guys can take this for your business and think like, okay, what's current? What do they really want? They're not buying lip filler, they're not buying a painted house. They're buying an image in their mind of what they want that house to signify or what it means to them.

0 (3h 26m 9s):
And this lady's not buying filler, she's trying to buy a certain look. She wants people to think about her a certain way that she want when people walk, when she walks in the room, she wants guys to turn their head still 'cause she's probably getting a little older, they're not turning their heads as much and she still misses that and she pay anything to get that. And she say, you're ugly. Now how pretty do you wanna be? We say, cool. So for us to get you from here to here, it's gonna take us 45 weeks, it's gonna take us Botox filler and you know, plastic surgery, whatever, we're gonna have to hit you with a pretty shovel and bring you back to life. Alright, we're gonna have to do this and it's gonna take this many weeks for us to reverse this level of aging or at least take these crow's feet out or whatever it is. And so we tie where you're at to where you wanna go. And then our solution is only the vehicle that delivers this outcome.

0 (3h 26m 51s):
And so that is the moment that you present the price because they picked where they were, where they want to go. And then you as the expert explain the path to getting there. So they picked the before and after and you just use your expertise of this is what we found best to get people to here who start where you're at. And so we found out that this opportunity existed within this particular business because I had my sales director secret shop them. So mind you, this is brick and mortar chain, we have a lot of locations so we could sneak our way in. It's harder if you have like a, you know, four sales guys who would do all the sales, they'll just tell the owner, right? So we wanted a secret shop before we actually completed the investment. And so when he went in, he was, I, I asked him, so I went through this checklist, I was like, okay, so did they give you some sort of presale questionnaire?

0 (3h 27m 31s):
He was like, no. I was like, okay, great. I was like, did you, did they ask you for your credit card or did they ask you for your information or anything before you got the service? And he was like, no. And I was like, fantastic. What else? What else did they do? It's like, did they have you set, you know, pick where you're at and where, where what your goal is? He said, yeah, they did have me pick where I was at but not where I wanted to go. So they just had him pick, okay, how ugly are you? And he is like, okay, now again, not completely flawed, I wanna be really clear here. Like this is a lo at 14 locations. They're not, they're not idiots. They had the pain, we agitated the pain, they said, listen, this is how ugly you are on this scale that we invented and you're here, you're a seven ugly, great. So we checked this but he didn't get to say where he wanted to be.

0 (3h 28m 12s):
So then from there he just went right into the service and then when he came out he just gave them the card to pay for the service and that was it. And he just walked out the door and I was like, wait, so they didn't, they didn't actually like ask you to buy a package or get into some membership or anything. And he is like, well they tried to upsell me this one product at one point, but this was the price point and the price point was like 20 bucks or something. And I knew what the average customer was worth, which was like 200 at the time. I was like, that's like by the way, if you're gonna do upsells, you want the price points usually be usually be five times more than the current price because if you get 20% of people, so customers are fractal. So we're gonna go into a little side quest here, but it'll be worth it for you.

0 (3h 28m 53s):
We're talking about sales. So you've heard of 80 20, right? So if you've got a hundred people, right, the top 20% and you've got the 80 underneath, right? These are the people, 80 20 have five times the spending power of these people. And so because of that, if you get 20% of people to buy something that's five times as expensive. So let's say my current thing is a thousand dollars. If I'm gonna have an upsell, I want my upsell to be $5,000 because if 20% ticket then it's 20% times 5,000, which means I add a thousand dollars to my average ticket. So I go from $2,000, or sorry, $1,000 per customer to $2,000 per customer.

0 (3h 29m 38s):
And so when I heard that their upsell was 10%, it'd be like having ups, it'd be like my upsell is a hundred bucks. Okay fine, maybe 20% take that. So i, I go from a thousand to a thousand to who cares? Like what's like why bother? Right? And fundamentally, again, smart business owners and they were upselling product, which means there's no real delivery in a brick and mortar service business. So they could just hand the product, make the money. And I think they were using it more for commissions for their staff to increase the average pay, which a different objective entirely and totally fine. But I was only looking at this from how do I take customers who are worth $200 and make them, my goal is to get 'em worth a thousand. Currently it's 800 and I'm gonna keep getting there until we get to a thousand.

0 (3h 30m 20s):
But I think that we can get it to a thousand. And so we secret shop them, number one, which by the way, if you have a team of people who are currently selling your stuff secret, shop them and then be horrified by what you listen to on the phone or what you see in person because you have this beautiful idea of what you think your sales process is and it's a nightmare. It's an absolute nightmare. If they remember half of it, you'll be stoked. And so if you run in an environment, especially in a, in a lower wage environment, so if you're brick and mortar, you have a chain of of locations and you have to take low school labor and and teach them a sales process, you've like the, the expertise in sales comes down to how easy and simple you can make the process.

0 (3h 31m 3s):
And so that comes down to like, can I automate parts of the po the point of sale so that they can't move forward without doing this checkbox, right? And by doing this checkbox, they have to ask the question. So it forces script adherence. Now training sales not into this video, but you wanna basically repeat the process over and over and over again. So until they're sick of it, until they say like, yes mom, would you like to have, do you have your credit? You wanna use the credit card on, on file? Like until they're saying it like they can, they can breathe it, they can think, they can say without thinking about it. That's when you've maybe just started to have a te a team that's, that's well-trained. Now that we finished these seven pieces of the diagnostic, I wanna add one more bonus 'cause you're like, wait a second. So where's the, where's the recurring revenue? Great observation Andrew.

0 (3h 31m 44s):
Okay, so, so number eight is transition to recurring. Alright, I remember this, I'll give you two separate stories that'll drive this home. So a friend of mine has a a, a recurring membership that he sells and he sells it at, I think he was selling it 300 bucks a month and he couldn't get people to stick past three months. And so he tried all these different gimmicks and things and he just couldn't crack three months of LTV. Now that could have been a pricing issue, whatever. So this is what he did. He stopped selling it at $300 a month, month to month and started selling as a $10,000 program with 36 months of interest refinancing. And so when people bought, they were buying a 10,000 price point but they got an amazing payment plan.

0 (3h 32m 26s):
And so he didn't change anything about what he sold but that took his average customer from three months to eight months. So we're talking about a $900 to three times, 300 to eight times, 320, 400. That kind of change in a business life changing in terms of how much money he can make. The second one was I had a different friend who had a continuity program. He was an agency and what he did was he realized he had churn in his business. And so he said, you know, people are way less likely to churn out of a payment plan same as the other one than they're out of a monthly recurring revenue stream. And so what you call it to the customer can affect the likelihood that they pay. But as far as the business is concerned, you just want payments that are regular and all you do to take a program and take it from recur, from a payment plan to recurring in terms of what, how it actually looks and feels is you just put an automatic recurring at the end of the program.

0 (3h 33m 18s):
And so when someone buys this big thing and you make a payment plan and then it recurs into the exact same price as the payment plan, you just move the pieces around but the likely they stick is way higher. And so that's exactly what we did as the last step in the diagnostic sales process. And I wanted to highlight this point for you because I've done it in every business. And so we give someone the option of prepay you can give if you want a little bit more aggressive, you get 20% off if they prepay today, if you want to have one step down below that, which is what I like to do, you give them 10% off if they do half down and then make the rest as payments. And if they still can't do that, then I take the whole thing and I spread it over let's say our 45 weeks. And so I'd say okay, it's 99 bucks a week, 99 a week and there you go.

0 (3h 33m 59s):
Now they go from 99 a week to 80 bucks a week if they prepay the whole thing and they go from 99 bucks a week to 90 a week if they prepay half. And here's the key part is that when we present the price, you present it at the highest rate. So you present it at the payment plan. Lemme walk, I'll walk you through this because I think it's important. Well I'm gonna put it here and so I don't have to flip screens for you. Alright, so you have your full boat, I'll say full interest price. So for us in our example is 4,500 bucks, alright? 45 weeks times 99 roughly. All right, so this is our full boat price. We have our prepayment discount in full, which is minus 20%.

0 (3h 34m 44s):
All right? So for us it's gonna be minus, what is that, 900? Yeah, 900 from there. So that's 5,600, sorry, other way. 3,600. 3,600. If they do half down, You say I'll, I'll let you save 450 bucks. So 10%, so 4 0, 5 0. All right. So this is 10% minus 10%, that's minus 20%. Now the reason this is so important is think about the alternative. Think about, and this is what most people do, so listen to me Andrew, most people do this, they present the price as $3,600 and then they say, oh well we have payment plans that we have interest on. And so we do, we do have 10% interest if you can put half down and we have 20% interest.

0 (3h 35m 28s):
If you put nothing down and you just go onto a straight payment plan, well which one would you rather buy? If on one hand you have a 4,500 price tag, which anchors you high and you say, or you can get a benefit for prepaying today rather than you think about 3,600, you're considering it. And then they say, oh, it's even more. Even though you're just considering this tag, guess what? You have to pay way more now because, because you can't afford it. You have to pay more. Banks do it all the time. And guess what, everyone hates banks. So if banks wanna fix their process, Mr. Bank, maybe this'll work. Who knows? Anyways, point is, is that this is how you present the price. 'cause you get the benefit of a price anchor and you get to be the good guy for getting them to pay upfront rather than the bad guy for them not being able to.

0 (3h 36m 11s):
So we're gonna, we're gonna go through step eight in, in the more transition process for the sale. And so I wanna just walk you through step downs and so this is super important to understand from a sales perspective. So we'll call this Sales Step downs. And this is by the way, a preview for my next book coming out. A hundred million dollar anyways, so, so sales step downs is one of the things that we have. So obviously the first thing we're gonna present is a prepayment, alright, which is painful today, prepay, yay by the way you've probably noticed from any of my content, I don't say paid in fulls. And that's because that's a, that's a salesman term, not a customer benefit. If you prepay, you get a benefit. Whereas paid in full is like, I got all the cash front, good for me.

0 (3h 36m 54s):
And so I have trained myself, 'cause I used to say paid in fools pips, skis, pay, you know, whatever's PIFs, like all of that stuff I used to do as a sales team, sales leader. And then I also heard my team saying that to customers be like, Hey, if you wanna pay in full today, like it just like kind of gross. And so I prefer to say like, Hey, we have a prepayment discount. And so training that just little pro tip for you. So number one is prepay. Number two is we do discount with partial. So this is the half down, oops, half down Here. You can also do in-house, well this is whatever, sorry, this is credit card or third party.

0 (3h 37m 36s):
So if you have like most, most businesses that sell legitimate services have third party financing solutions that already exist. And so I promise you there is a banker somewhere who started a business to service this emerging market of whatever it is that you do. Who says, ah, bet you I can help finance transactions. Now the prices they charge for that financing will differ based on how risky your business is. And so like there's financing for casinos. Like if you want to get a, if you wanna get a loan to go gamble more like there's financing for that, but they will charge you a lot of money, right? And so like that being the extreme, on the other hand, if you wanna finance a house, there's obviously a huge mortgage industry. And so from every step in between there are partners who will step in as third party and take on that risk for you for a price.

0 (3h 38m 19s):
And so I prefer, can I get the prepayment 'cause it's easiest and fastest? If not, I usually have a third party that I set up so that my customers can get financing. If we don't move past either of these two things, then I try to go with a partial with some level of discount. Not as much as here but a little bit. And if they still say no, Then I go for continuity. Which is why don't we just make a payment plan on the thing? And in this particular business, because what they were doing before was simply re-booking people for another session of service. We just had this be the automatic, like everyone gets re-booked. And that became, that became an internal saying like, I like having mantras within sales teams, which is like everyone buys something.

0 (3h 39m 2s):
Like everyone buys something. There's no reason someone should not buy something. And so sure we'll get 'em a prepay, maybe a partial, okay fine, we'll do a payment plan. That's whatever, call it, you know, two 50 times four, great, that's our a thousand dollars, that's our a thousand dollars plan that we're getting people to buy. And you pay two 50 today and then three more times and you could do it every other month if it's a more intermittent service, whatever, match the payments to when they get delivery. And then finally, if they're like, well I can't do any of those things, then it's like, cool, let's just, let's just book the next time you wanna come in. That's it. And so this is the final of the process in terms of in terms of the step downs that we might offer someone. We just walk through this whole process and you're like, wow, maybe that's a lot of work.

0 (3h 39m 42s):
I have to use my brain power, but welcome to business. But let me tell you why it's worth it. So these are the actual stats and I put the numbers without the names to keep it nice open loop for you. So number one is that they had 9% of revenue that was recurring within this product line. All right? So they had 9% that was recurring after we implemented this process, 60% they took this 9% to 60% of this product line within the company. So awesome. Number two, they had basically no membership at all. 'cause they just weren't, it wasn't even an option, not really. And we were to push that to 30, that's a 30, 30% into memberships.

0 (3h 40m 25s):
This included payment plans, this is just memberships. And then we went from getting one additional extra visit on average per person, meaning two to getting four to six visits per customer by introducing this sales process. And from a money perspective, we went from $20,000 when we bought the business. So mind you, this business made a lot more money than this single product line or the service line. But this is where I wanted to invest my time because I thought there was a huge opportunity here. 'cause I saw from the secret chopper from the constraints, I thought this was a big area of attack. And so they were only need 20,000 a month within in business. The size is not a lot. And then however many, however many dots of this later over 250,000 per month in added and it continues to grow.

0 (3h 41m 15s):
And this compounds and that's the, that's the beauty of this type of sales process and repackaging of what someone already sells. And so we went from nine to 60 zero to 30% on memberships from one visit to four to six visits and from 20 to 250,000. So we more than 10 XD the recurring revenue of this business by following a diagnostic process rather than just selling some traditional one-off thing. The first thing you have to learn how to do is how to sell. The second thing you have to learn how to do is get someone else to sell for you. And so in this video I break down how we scaled a new sales department from zero to 40 sales reps doing 5 million plus per month in sales within 90 days. But before I explain the $21.6 million increase, lemme kind of give you some context on this business and where it was in the lifecycle, we brought in mercenaries.

0 (3h 41m 58s):
So when I say mercenaries, I mean an outsource sales team. The founder of the business had never been in sales at all. He'd never got on the phone, he'd never done door to door, he'd never done anything related to getting a stranger to give him money. One-on-one, I thought he was too risky to try and have somebody who's completely new to it try and start from scratch. And so I called somebody in my network and I said, Hey, do you wanna make a bunch of money? And he said, yes. Can you round up some of your guys and start taking calls for this company that I have? And so they started taking sales and we started making more money. We have a W Money up W fantastic. And in a second I'll walk you through all the statistics of what the mercenaries and the outhouse team did, which then led us to the fully in-house team.

0 (3h 42m 40s):
Now as you can imagine, going from zero sales guys to 40 sales guys in a fresh company is hard. But let me explain some of the problems with the mercenaries and then I'll walk you through the actual stats. So there are three main problems with the mercenaries. Alright? Problem number one is that we were giving them 20% of the revenue. Alright? Now this is something that I was vehemently against to be very honest with you. In this particular company, I was in minority position. I said, it's ultimately your call. I was like, but I would not do it at this percentage. They decided to move forward with it anyways. And hey, we made money. There was a W there, but it was a problem. 20% of revenue coming in is a big fucking check. The sales team company was arguing, we can't get the top guys to sell unless we give them a really big rip.

0 (3h 43m 23s):
That's sales slang, big commission. So we had to give them 20% of the revenue that they collected as commissioned to the mercenaries team, the outhouse sales team. The second problem that came up is related to performance. They were getting less than 30% of people to ascend, meaning people who buy the first thing to buy the next thing. And we wanted it to be higher than, or I believe that it should be higher than that. We're paying a lot and we're not getting as much out as we want. The third problem with the outhouse sales team, and this is one that I think more long term about 'cause I'm an investor in the business, is, is the sellability and enterprise value of the business. Meaning in the future we'd like to sell the company at some point probably.

0 (3h 44m 5s):
And even if you don't wanna sell a business, creating a sellable business still makes the business more valuable. And so if you can make a business more valuable to a stranger, it also becomes more valuable to you. If you have a outsourced sales team, something that exists outside of the business that's responsible for 20, 30, 40% of the revenue in the business, then that could be a material issue. That's why we decided to look at these three things and say, all right, let's see if we can move this in-house. I'm gonna walk you through first the funnel kind of before and after, and then I'll walk you through the process that we did to fix it or swap it over. That resulted in the $21.6 million increase in profit, not revenue profit. The way that this process was structured is we had a two call set up.

0 (3h 44m 45s):
We've got a percentage of people who schedule a call, a percentage of people who show to the call and then schedule the next thing. Then they have to show to the next thing and they go to the next call. And then do they buy suddenly walk you through the stats here, because everyone who bought the product had a first call that they wanted to attend. A hundred percent of people were scheduled to show up for this call with the outsource sales team. We had 74% of people who were actually showing for the call. Once they got on the call, we were able to get 53% to schedule the follow up call. And so some people call this a qualification call, which is if you're going to sell something else, you wanna make sure the person actually fits for the thing you sell.

0 (3h 45m 27s):
Makes sense, right? You wanna make sure they have the problem to solve and the money to spend with the 53%. The outsource team wanted to only give their closers because he's trying to optimize for his dollars per hour for his team, only the easiest closes. So they weren't willing to take calls, they weren't already sure were going to close. Alright? So because of that, they were only passing 53% or almost half to the next call. Now again, this is just scheduling. Now from here we had 63% showing up to call two. So this is call one, this is call two. Now this is the close call, this is the set call, this is the close. I'll just put the set. This is close. So the last box we gotta fill in here is how many people were they actually selling?

0 (3h 46m 8s):
Alright? And they were getting 80% of people who showed to the second call, the close call to buy. Alright? And so that is where money came out the other side, hooray. So let's walk through the math as if a hundred people bought the product. So if a hundred people bought the product, then it means that we'd have 74, 70 4% of 174 people who would show up to this first call. Now of the 74 people, 53%, so about 37 of them would then schedule for the second call. Of the 37 people who scheduled for the second call, we're gonna have 22. So 63%, 22 of them are actually gonna show up to this close call.

0 (3h 46m 50s):
Now 80% of these 22 are going to close, which means we'd have about 20 sales or 20% of that front end that has said, now remember I said at the very beginning, one of the problems Is that we wanted it to be closer to 30. This is the issue. And so I wanna be very clear, a big part of this was the price point we were selling at and the fact that we were selling people who are already customers. We're not selling cold traffic here, we're selling people who already bought this already demonstrated interest. And we're saying, do you want more help with that thing? So we thought it should be much higher. So there's five steps that we broke down that we had to do to go from out of house team mercenaries to in-house sales team.

0 (3h 47m 31s):
And the first one started with hiring a director. Now right off the bat, let me explain our thinking process before I explained who we were looking for and how we found them. 'cause listen, you don't wanna hire 40 people, right? You were thinking, okay, I wanna hire one person who can then hire 40 people Times a lot more circles, right? It's even long to write it out, alright? It's an old investor saying which is hire one to hire 10. We're gonna hire the one person, not the 40. That's the main decision. After that, what we're looking for is who? Who are we looking for? What do they look like? And then how are we gonna find them? Okay? Now from a who perspective, we wanted someone who had been there, done that, which means specifically somebody who sold this type of product and this type of industry and ideally scaled a big team and knows how to coach up new salespeople.

0 (3h 48m 21s):
So that's what bin there means for us for this particular role. The next thing is you want the person to be metrics driven. So one of the easiest ways that you can measure someone's proficiency in any skill is a little pro tip. The quality and quantity of metrics that someone explains about how they do their job is directly correlated with how good they are at the job. And so if someone's like, Hey, I'm an amazing HR person and I say, cool, what metrics do you track? And they're like, well the happiness of the team. And I'd be like, what else do you track how many complaints I get on payroll? I'd be like, okay, what else do you track the order that they tell me the metrics they're looking at and what they track is gonna tell me what they care about, what they pay attention to and their level of expertise.

0 (3h 49m 3s):
Now on the flip side, if someone says, Hey, I like to take companies from on average a 45 day time to fill to 20 day time to fill because we know that every day that a company doesn't have something they need, they're losing money, there's opportunity, cost of revenue they should be making by not having them. This is really interesting because they're connecting their metrics to the company's revenue. And so how people talk about the metrics and which metrics they track and how they connect those with how it makes the company more money will show you how good they are at what they do. The third one is just kind of the, I would say demeanor. Now I've hired a lot of salespeople and sales directors in my life and the personality of a sales leader is usually not the same as the personality of a sales killer. Now there are some superstars who can do both, but it's rarer.

0 (3h 49m 46s):
Oftentimes the demeanor of sales directors is a little bit more even keeled, usually more humble, very servant oriented. They have to be people. People. They have to be the type of person who wants to pour into the team and loves watching someone improve their skillset and can repeat the same directions over and over and over again without losing enthusiasm. That's who you want. You want somebody who's like a energizer bunny of of positive vibes because for the most part, sales director is just performance management. They manage the culture of the team. Like the output of the entire team is the direct function of the sales director. And so if you think about this like on a, on a football team or something, you can switch the coaches and all of a sudden the whole team does way better. It's because the coach drives the culture in the team that drives the performance and the output.

0 (3h 50m 30s):
And so that is what they're responsible for. And so if they don't have values, everything else that comes from the team is gonna be a diluted version of them. Now we go to the how you're like, okay, well that sounds like an amazing unicorn Alex, how do you find that person? Who's gonna replace this? Well, I personally have a relatively large network of salespeople. And so one of the big things here is that you can either, this is the core four by the way. You can do outreach, which means you reach out to strangers who you think might fit the role. You can run ads. So you run ads to go get more people content. You could also do recruiter. I've used all of these. Alright, so there there's pros and cons to each of them. But what I will do is I'm gonna cross out two of these early for most of you, most people think that you can run ads for these types of roles.

0 (3h 51m 14s):
The reality is usually no. The higher the role is, the better the person is, the less likely they're gonna respond to an ad. 'cause think about it, an amazing sales director is always going to have a job and always gonna be making good money. Now, they might not like their job as much as they they they could, but they're gonna keep making money. And sales directors tend to be money oriented in general. And so they're gonna keep making money. So ads is probably not the way to get them content unless you have a sales person audience, probably not gonna be the way you can always try it. It's free, give it a shot. But I wouldn't say I'm gonna bet the farm on this. So it's probably not gonna be content. And so usually you're gonna do one of these two, which is you're gonna get a recruiter to do it or you do it yourself.

0 (3h 51m 54s):
But guess what a recruiter does? They do outreach too. I know this is gonna sound crazy. You message them and you say, Hey, I've got this role and it looks like you're perfect for it. Could I tell you about it? Or if you wanna be a little less direct, you could say you're an amazing person who'd be a fit for this role. Do you wanna, do you know anybody else like you that they're gonna be like, screw everybody else. Talk to me Alex, how many people do I reach out to? Five. Five. No one's even gonna read it. If you message five people 10, no one's gonna read. If you message 10 people reach out to a hundred to a thousand people. And if you get to that 1% on the a hundred and you haven't found it, then you might have to go 1% on a thousand and that's okay.

0 (3h 52m 35s):
'cause remember would you rather have a top 1% sales director? I sure as shit would. So it's okay to turn down the first guy you talked to just 'cause he has a pulse and has one of these things. It's like, okay, this guy talked about metrics but he was a dick and he actually doesn't have the experience that I'm looking for. Well then don't hire him. But the thing is, is it's tough to do that when you're an entrepreneur because you're like, I'm bleeding every day, the house is on fire. I need this roll. But I promise you it's way more painful to hire the person, onboard them, spend two months run, getting them up, then they start hiring shitheads because they're a shithead and then all of a sudden you're like, oh my god, I hit this whole team. And so even if you do get rid of the top, you then have all the stuff they brought in underneath.

0 (3h 53m 16s):
And so you have to clean house and it's really, really painful. And so as much as you hire one to hire 10, if you fire one, sometimes you have to fire 10. And that sucks. And so getting this hire right is super important, but it's also why we spend more time on it. So now that we hired our in-house sales director, we wanna rebuild the compensation structure, right? Because remember the 20% wasn't gonna fly. 'cause if we just flipped it to 20, we might as well just save the effort, right? So we had to rebuild the incentive structure. The problem that we had right now, if you remember was that we had the prob, I think it was problem one or problem two, whatever problem one or problem two, whatever it was, 20% of revenue was going to the outsource sales team. So we wanted to make sure we were less than that. Our target was sub 10%.

0 (3h 53m 57s):
And that's usually around what I like to be in. Now I wanna be very clear here, there are things that this depends on. So if you are in a business where the salesman does self gen, meaning they generate their own leads. So if you're, if you're going outbound and you're cold calling or you're door knocking, then these percentages will be shifted because you technically are a cost of Acquisition. You're both marketing and sales. You're getting the leads and closing the leads. If you are handing salespeople leads, if you're running ads, you have a media team that then generates leads or prospects for a sales team, then you basically have to split that cost between the marketing team and the sales guys. And so given that, let me explain how I actually think about this. What skills do I need? How rare are those skills? So if I'm feeding softballs to somebody, then I don't need Ken Griffey to hit it outta the park.

0 (3h 54m 43s):
Alright? For Gen Z, Mookie bets, alright, I don't need Mookie bets to knock it outta the park because I'm soft tossing, right? Anybody can probably rock it outta the park that's double layer or up because at that level, because it's so much easier, if you have crazy expectations, it's rarer and they have more skills. So you gotta pay more. If it's something that's not a lot of skills and more common you can pay less. And so I just think how much would I need to pay to attract the level of salesperson I need? Our goal is to take it from 20% to around 10% or less and rebuild the comp plan. You can think about compensation in two columns, alright? You've got money and not money, alright?

0 (3h 55m 23s):
This is a very complicated system. I don't wanna get into the specifics. A lot of physics behind this. Alright? So you've got the money you give them for closing deals and then you've got other shit. And so that's recognition, praise a approval perks status. If you publicly recognize them, if you have a leaderboard, if you give them more attention, you get, you actually train them more, you give them more skills. You say, Hey outa boy, awesome job, great day today. You say, Hey, the guy who closes the most gets to park in the nice parking lot and then status like maybe when they close a hundred sales, they get a hat with a stripe on it. When they close a thousand sales, they get two stripes and so forth. It's when you guys come on the team, they're like, fuck, I want one of those hats, right?

0 (3h 56m 6s):
Sales team six, let's go. There's all these things that you can do to increase the value of the job outside of money. And as much as people, sales guys included will be like, that doesn't motivate me. Sure as shit does alright? It totally does because it makes your life better on the money side. There's a couple ways to do this. Alright? And so I'm gonna explain how we did it. I've we've, we've made a lot of different compensation structures, A lot of it depends on again the business that's involved. Now one of the big decisions we've made up front was that we were going to comp setters and closers. Now why is that so important? The funnel is throughput. If I can increase my show up rate by 20%, it's just as good as increasing my closer by 20%.

0 (3h 56m 46s):
It makes no difference. The business, they were just as equally weighted in terms of their value. But again, how rare are the skills and what skills were required. It's easier to set than it is to close just as important but easier setters and closers. Equally important but rarer to find a skill from closer. So they got paid a little bit more, but setter still got commissions as well to incentivize the fact that they would get people to show. Cool. So the way that I prefer to set up compensation structures, the idea that I like to have is that I like WW at the top, which means winners win all right? Which also means losers lose. That's fine. There's more fewer winners than there are losers. What that means is you can have ratchets for compensation.

0 (3h 57m 26s):
Meaning if you close 50% Of the people, I'm just using arbitrary number, you get to keep your job. If you close 60%, you get attaboys. If you close 70%, your commission goes from 10% to 15%. Ah, 50% increase. Not bad. If you close above 80%, you get 25%. Whoa. Right? And so it ramps. And so it allows the people who are absolute killers to crush. And then the people who are not, guess what happens down here?

0 (3h 58m 8s):
Churn. But this is structural churn. This is expected churn. This is part of The Game where this type of role, like if you require work ethic, you require practice, require people to show up early, work late, work weekends, take calls. It requires a certain type of person and a lot of people aren't cut out for it. Which is also why most people don't make multiple six figures a year selling. We fixed the compensation structure, we comp sitters and closers, we ramped it so that the best guys would get more than 10%. But we knew that as a team we averaged round. If you wanna know the actual number was we got the overall everything all in fully baked, including the sales director for 9%. We are feeding them qualified prospects. They're not even prospects, they're customers.

0 (3h 58m 49s):
We already have their fucking credit card. Like we just had to say, want more of the thing you just bought? Want more help with that thing so you can get the outcome you just said you wanted. Like these are not hard sales. And by doing this, we got to move on to step three. Now that we've rebuilt the incentive and comp plan to get the types of sales guys that we want on the team, then we had to rebuild the process. So I'm gonna walk through what we do to improve each of these numbers one by one because as you're thinking about your business, there is no silver bullet. There's no one thing you're gonna do that's changed this entire process. It's a hundred golden bbs and this is how we approach everything in business. And business is a pipeline like this. And so I'm gonna show you what we did and we did improve every one of these numbers except for one. But it was okay and I'll show you why, but remember a hundred percent of people are automatically booked for this next appointment, alright?

0 (3h 59m 34s):
And so we wanted to improve this show up rate and so we improved it to 91%. Ooh 74, 91 more money. Good. That's a 21% increase. Meaning if we did nothing else, we did nothing else in the start process, everything will stayed the same. We would have a 20% increase in sales and most of that would disproportionately drop to the bottom line 'cause we already acquired the customer. So all this additional sales money goes to profit. Big deal. So we did three things. The first is that the mercenary team is way too aggressive in their copy. False urgency, false scarcity. People kind of see through it. So that was number one that they did that we fixed. Number two is they were giving people way too much time to book out. I'd say, Hey, when do you wanna show up for your next call?

0 (4h 0m 14s):
People would be like, oh how's two weeks from now? And they were like, sure. Our big rule of thumb, despite the fact them trying to push out five plus days for appointments is we try to go for same day next day. And that's because in our history, more people show up the same day next day appointments than five days plus from now. And so by just simply making the messaging less aggressive, shortening the time when they can book their next call. And number three, setting reminders that were actually personalized. So rather than just robo text, they're the green ones that everyone fucking hates, right? We'd have the sales guy do a three-way connection with the setter and say, Hey, my name's John. It's nice to meet you Sarah. Looks like you've got X, Y, and Z that I can reach from your account. Really excited to talk to you tomorrow.

0 (4h 0m 54s):
I think I can help you with X, Y, and Z. Very simple, but it's a video or a voice memo and they see it from a real person. Alright? And they can take a picture, whatever. And those three things together, 91%, which is a 21% improvement. So now that we got people to show for that first call, how many of them did we get to schedule the next call? Which is basically the close of the set call. You're gonna see some magic happen right here. We had a major improvement. I'm not gonna tell you what it's, I'll tell you how much we improved this one in a second. But we did two things to improve the percentage of people who showed up to set calls who decided to schedule close calls. Alright? So number one mistake that they were making in this particular business is that again this was an outsourced closing team.

0 (4h 1m 36s):
And so they were trying to minimize how much unqualified work their closers would get because they so carefully wanted to make sure their closes were happy because they were all mercenaries and they all had to pay 'em a ton just to show up to work every day. Point being one, the incentives were misaligned. And so setters, remember we added our setters had a compensation structure to get people to set. They didn't have that. We did add that. And so what do you know, our setters got more people to schedule wild. I know the second thing was that they were d queuing people on the set call in my opinion, too early. And so they wouldn't really go through a sale, they would just say, Hey, here's the price, are you down to pay that? If yes I'll book you a call with John. But by doing that they were basically not selling, they were just taking orders.

0 (4h 2m 18s):
Which if I just tell you the price and you buy, I don't need you, you're not selling at all. You're just a checkout page. That's inefficient. That takes 20%. We corrected number one, we we, we align the incentives of the setters with the overall business, not the closer we aligned the setting incentive with the business throughput which got rid of the dqs that were overly d Qing people. And we made sure that when they were talking about the product, we were just more trying to qualify the prospect to make sure they had the problem to solve and the money to spend. Not telling them the price of what they would ultimately buy. 'cause we haven't sold 'em yet. We just wanna make sure that this is a big enough problem for them and that they seem reasonably able to pay if we present it to them.

0 (4h 3m 2s):
Our schedule percentage went from survey says 53%, two 94% for those keeping track at home, that's a 77% increase. So forgetting this one, if we kept everything else the same and we only did this, we would've increased sales by 77% assuming everything else stayed the same but everything else didn't stay the same. So lemme show you the next thing we did which was we had people show up for the first call, we got 94% to schedule the next call and now we have what percentage these 94 actually showing. 'cause hey, maybe you just get everyone to say yes so they get off the phone, but are they actually showing? Believe it or not, and this is gonna sound crazy, the show rate that we had here was actually the same process that we had here because believe it or not, if people have a good experience and it's personalized to them, they're more likely to show.

0 (4h 3m 51s):
And so rather than explain, literally repeat myself, I'm gonna say, oh we actually got the team to do it. So we did four things. Number one is we started implementing daily training, which means that every day the team would get together and they would role play the scripting to make sure their tone was right, that they were coming off the right way, that they're hitting the main points. Make sure that they were framing things properly, adding curiosity, hitting the main pain points that the prospect's gonna have so they could set up the next call. Number two is that we do game tape reviews, which is very simple, but you just watch game tape with the team and you have the person who is in the call critique themselves. So rather than have everybody jump on them, 'cause no one likes that, it's horrible. You just have them say, what are all the things you could've done differently? And then the team says all the things they did well 'cause remember there's always something someone did well you play the tape, they say all the things they would've done differently and most people do know when they watch it, which is one of the best ways to learn.

0 (4h 4m 40s):
And then everyone else says, Hey, I think you did a great job here. I think you did a great job here ravo. Next one up. The third thing is this is why the sales director was so key and why they were the first hire. It is doing one-on-ones and one-on-ones. You role play like I you role play till you're sick in the face. You have to learn how to train people how to speak like that's what the job of the sales manager is. Besides managing the culture of the team is if John's rapport building sucks, guess what sales manager does? Every time they have a one-on-one with John, they practice rapport building. Alright? Which means you follow the script. Nope, say it again. Yep, say it again. Try like this, huh? Like there you go. Change your tongue. There it is. Like we're talking 10, 20, 30 reps on one or two phrases in the script so they get it down. If your salesman is not talking back to you in the script on your one-on-ones, you were literally wasting time.

0 (4h 5m 26s):
The fourth thing was just end of day reports, which is you just wanna make sure that they know you're tracking what matters. And if there's no tracking throughout the week, no one feels held accountable. It also doesn't give you the opportunity to praise and give attaboys. Alright? And so every day the stats are being tracked in real time and daily leaders, daily winners. Alright, so those are the four things we did from here to drive our show rate two

3 (4h 5m 49s):
Woo

0 (4h 5m 50s):
87%, that's a 40% increase. So if we did nothing else but we just had this one improvement in this process and everything else stayed the same, we would've increased sales by 40%. Not too shabby. If you're following at home, which you should be, we should at this point have a ton more volume that is coming to these closers. Massive movements. 'cause remember these are customers, this is why we felt like we could do a lot better now hitting the close call. So in order to improve this number to the best degree possible, 'cause we never we're gonna have more disqualified people here. Remember we we told the setters send anybody you can 'cause we wanted to get more at bats. Okay, so one we also added in A VSL. So video sales letter between call one and call two.

0 (4h 6m 30s):
So people got to have some social proof, they got to see some results, they got to have a better understanding. 'cause in my personal opinion, I don't like salespeople repeating a pitch. I'd rather have someone understand the benefits and then have salesmen resolve concerns and personalize solutions to customers rather than have them say the same 15 minute pitch. 'cause it then it sounds robotic and they zone out and so does the prospect. So I like to say here's all the info, watch that and then we will talk about it. Okay, so number one is we added that piece in. Number two, we role played a lot on the common objections and we like to do that before the call. The video sales letter covered some of these common concerns in the video so that the sales guys had a little bit more of an advantage going into the call.

0 (4h 7m 11s):
And then also in the scripting we front loaded the obstacles before you mention the price, you overcome obstacles after its objections. Alright? So if I say, Hey, do you think your husband supports you in doing this new thing? Before I say the price, then I've overcome an obstacle. If I say the price and I didn't overcome it, it becomes an objection which is way harder to close. We call it killing zombies, right? You wanna kill the zombies, you wanna diffuse the bombs before you talk about money. And so we front loaded the script to accommodate those issues that people were losing in the sales and we focused the script far more on what they were going to experience afterwards rather than the features within the service. Because at the end of the day, they don't care about the features of service.

0 (4h 7m 52s):
They care about where they're gonna go, what life's gonna be like afterwards. So sell the vacation, not the plane flight. So we made those changes and we got the close rate. If you're like, wait, 42 is lower than 80, sure as hell is great math. If we're doing the percentages here and we have a 21% increase here and a 77% increase here and we have a 40% increase here. So that's 1.2 plus 1.77 plus 1.4, we have far more than a double in terms of how much volume is going there. In fact we had three and a half times more volume but we cut the close rate in half. But three and a half times 0.5 is more than one. Meaning we increased the total throughput of this system.

0 (4h 8m 35s):
And so the end result of this entire process Is we went from closing 20% of that a hundred people that buy the product to 32 a net savings of going from 20% of revenue to 9%. So we paid less than half to get 60% more sales. And as you recall, all additional sales dropped to the bottom line because we had already acquired the customers. So now that we had her in-house director, we rebuilt the incentive and comp plant and we rebuilt the sales process. Now we wanted to scale. So we had to go from zero to 40 reps and we had to do it in record time.

0 (4h 9m 17s):
Alright, so number one is that to go get all those people, we went everywhere. Alright? So we actually did all the things that I outlined, but we also hired five to six recruiters right off the bat. We did a ton of app on ourselves, we hit our whole email list up, we did everything 'cause we had to hire 40 guys, we had to do it in 12 weeks. Alright, so number one is we did everywhere. So plus ads, well actually didn do ads this more content And outbound. Alright? So recruiters, content and outbound is what we did to get all the people in the door. Now once we had people in the door, we didn't have the sales director interview all these candidates because he just wouldn't literally have the time. He did a final checkoff once the team planned on hiring them.

0 (4h 9m 58s):
And so we had the manager for the setters do the, do several of the talks with the leads and we also had the recruiters do a lot of the screening as well so that the sales director could save his time and still keep managing the actual team and training the people who were on the floor making money for the company. Alright? So saved directors time. The next thing is, okay great, so we got a lot of people, we got 'em hired, but how do we make sure that they're actually good? So we automated the sales training To the greatest degree possible. Now what does that really mean? It means we made a course that was an internal course on how to sell this thing. And so the nice thing with internal courses, if you don't have them, highly recommend it.

0 (4h 10m 40s):
Because the most expensive thing a business can do is train salespeople. Reason why is because when you take a salesperson and you train them on live prospects, all of the money they don't close is money you lose and you lose all. Like you lose the money that you could have made and you lose the money that you spent to get them there. Very expensive. Especially when, and this happens a lot too. You do all of that only to have them get fired or leave or burn out or whatever, alright? And so we want them to take as many reps as humanly possible in a fashion where there's no risk to the company, which is why we have them watch tons of game tape footage. They attend all the meetings, they listen to tons of live calls, they go through the course and then they role play.

0 (4h 11m 23s):
There's one takeaway for this fucking video is that you role play with your team and that you get really, really narrow on the things that you want them to improve. And you keep nailing that thing until it's perfect and then move to the next thing. There's no point in trying to tell someone to improve. Six things doesn't work. I promise you it doesn't work. I spent too long doing this doesn't work. You say let's work on the first sense of the fucking script. Keep doing it again. Try it again. Try it again. Try it again one more time. Say it lighter, say it faster loop to this one. Got it. Second question, right? That's how you work through a script until they will, they will be able to breathe it in their sleep. Then they can actually be present for the sales call. 'cause they don't have to think about the scripting 'cause they already know it. So we recruited the people, we saved the director's time, we automated the internal onboarding.

0 (4h 12m 3s):
I'm gonna give you a pro tip from me, which is that if someone seems like a dud within 14 days, let 'em go. Some people think I'm heartless. How could I be so heartless because I have other families I have to look out for too. And if we don't keep the sales team profitable, the whole business doesn't work. We give people a shot, we give 'em to all, all this stuff. We give 'em a ton of free training, alright? They actually technically get paid to get trained and if they don't, if they're not up to chops, we gotta let 'em go. But we set that expectation up front. And one more thing, and this is a a little pro tip for me. I don't know how to spell that but no primadonnas. Alright, so no special snowflakes because the thing is, is even if you have one killer on the team and they don't follow the process, they undermine the entirety of the process and they also kill the culture.

0 (4h 12m 47s):
And so if one guy does double the sales of everybody else or triple the sales of everyone else, I can almost guarantee nine times outta 10 of my experience, they actually take those sales out of the organization overall. So one guy does triple and everyone's like, oh, we should be like him. But the rep you, if you have like a 20 person team and everyone goes down by 10% 'cause of this guy, 'cause the cancer spreads not worth it, just cut it out, keep the system. And now that we have the in-house director, we rebuilt the incentive and comp plan, we rebuilt the sales process, we scaled the sales team and we stabilized it so that we were consistently beating the other team and doing it for less than we were able to move on to step five, which is get rid of outsourced team.

0 (4h 13m 30s):
So with the outhouse team, we did $7 million in cash collected in Q1. The commission on that was $1.4 million, remember 20%. So the company got to profit 5.6, I'm saying profit loosely. 5.6. The company got to keep after paying the sale, the out out outsource sales team, this 7% with the in-house sales team became $12 million. The next quarter the commission because instead of 20% we went to 9%. So the commission went from 1.4 million on seven to 1.08 million for 12.

0 (4h 14m 15s):
Net change here was 12 minus one, 10.92 million, which created the difference between these two was $5.4 million. And that was just in that quarter times four for the year. And you get 21.6 million. This is one of my favorite sales presentations I've ever given. And it covers three things. One, how to ask the right questions. Two, how to ask them the right way. And three, how to duplicate those words and that tone across a team of people. If you're building your first sales script, if you're scaling a sales team and you wanna make sure that you can onboard new people and get them selling at the same percentage or better than you are right now, which for many people is biggest bottleneck, especially when you're coming to for your first million or first 3 million per year.

0 (4h 15m 8s):
Scaling the sales team is one of the of the most difficult tasks. And so I've broken this down into three frameworks that I've used very successfully to scale lots of different sales teams. I say that the, the company I'm referencing in this video has 14. That one company already now has almost 30 sales guys. So this process continued to work past when I made this presentation. So if you're trying to scale sales, you want to close a higher percentage, you wanna get more guys closing at that same percentage or better than yours. And if you don't know who I am, my name's Mozzi on Acquisition dot com. We had a portfolio at this moment of six companies to do $85 million a year. Keep being awesome, love you and enjoy the video. What I'm gonna be breaking down today is the scripting process that we've applied for calls, right? And so as the World's Wars marketer, I sent my first email this year.

0 (4h 15m 48s):
I was very excited about it. We've been in business for 10 years, pretty big stuff. And it was because I couldn't get webinars, I couldn't get VSLs, I couldn't get all the fancy stuff that you guys get to work. And so I went back in time and just was like, if I can just get 'em to give my phone number, I'll be able to get 'em to you. Like buy shit from me. And so I went and called back all these webinar leads that never showed up or never bought or whatever, and ended up doing like a hundred thousand in sales in a day. And I was like, wow, this is so much easier. And so over time I've consulted with sales teams. I've trained and owned four height ticket performance teams. I think we have 12 or 14 sales guys now. It kind of rotates. And so what I wanna do is kinda show you what we've done to consistently replicate the skill of sales.

0 (4h 16m 31s):
Another human being. Would that be cool? Alright, so if I can add like 10% to your conversion rate in terms of how you attract better closers, how you script the process out and how you should close more deals and scale 'em to incentivize them, would that be valuable for you guys? Alright, sweet. So these are the three frameworks that transform losing funnels into cash machines. That was my real life. That was the picture of my actual first funnel and that's what it became. And so these are the three, fail the frameworks. Number one, close your framework. How to ask questions that get prospects to say yes. Adding this to a funnel instantly can make it profitable. All right, this is my personal experience. Number two is conviction framework. Alright? How anyone who believes can outperform a seasoned sales rep by simply learning to control their tone.

0 (4h 17m 11s):
Really important. This is one of the biggest things that most sales and people miss. Number three, the scaling framework. How to easily duplicate this process across salespeople in any niche in seven days or less. So seven days from now. If we can do this, would that be cool? Alright, let's rock. So number one, the closer framework. After going through hundreds of scripts, I've bought grant stuff. I bought the Wolf of Wall Street stuff, I bought all that stuff and going through my own sales processes, I learned that the the scripting process even was simpler. I think then it's portrayed. And it's not that it's something to be sold against, but every sales script that has been absolutely gangbusters has been a question-based framework that is based on this process. All right? And this works for B2C sales. It works for B2B, B2B sales.

0 (4h 17m 52s):
It works for $500 tickets, it works for a hundred thousand dollars tickets. The process, it's the same. And so this is the acronym closer framework. As I said, world's dumbest marketer. So I made it nice and easy to remember. Alright, so C, clarify why they're there. When I look at creating a script, the first thing we ask is like, why the hell are you here? What made you reach out to us today? What was the thing? What is the goal you're trying to accomplish? Right? Two, label them with a problem. We can't cure cancer unless they admit that they have it, right? Has anyone had that situation? Like I just wanted to find out more information and we had that, right? What's like, well, I'm assuming you're not hopping on sales calls. Are they just trying to find information? Is there a problem you're trying to solve? Oh, you're fat. Got it. Alright, boom. So yeah, that's the problem.

0 (4h 18m 31s):
We can solve it after that. I'm su I'm assuming I'm not the first guy you've ever dated, right? So is there anything else that you've had happen in the past that got you here that didn't work? I'd love to know more about it. Ask, once we've gone through the pain, we saw the vacation, right? There's a process that I'll walk through. E we explain away their concerns. 'cause obviously sane people don't make decisions on the first call unless you're a closer, in which case they do, which I'll talk about. And then finally, and this is something that we actually added in my original framework for my first couple years was close, and then we added the R because when you do this, it actually transitions into the onboarding process that will get higher. LTV per customer, lower churn, lower refunds, lower chargebacks, which are sales guys and you will be happy about.

0 (4h 19m 11s):
Cool. All right, let's rock. So we'll examine each one more, more closely. Clarify why they're there. These are the questions that sounds like what made you come in today? What made you reach out? What's your goal right now? Why is that important to you? Why that number? Specifically? What does that, what does it resonate for you, right? Why? Why is that real? L The questions that we're looking is like, okay, so what I'm hearing is XY Z user your goal. Does that sound about right? Right. Really simple but very important. It's a milestone that has to be hit in the process. Alright? Then we overview, right? This is where we're gathering all the incel. And for some of you guys, my goal is that you can take this to your sales team or your sales director and run your script through this framework and then see where you can plug in. You probably have some of it, but if you're missing one or two of these questions and milestones, you're losing conversions on the call.

0 (4h 19m 54s):
Like you're closing people who already had those obstacles covered. But everyone who didn't have two of these questions covered, you lose them. And you don't know why. And you watch the sales call and you're like, what the hell happened here? Right? So what have you tried so far to accomplish that? How? This is what we call the pain cycle. It's a four step process. What have you tried so far to accomplish this? How long did did you do that for? How long ago? How'd that work for you? What else have you tried? Right? So we just do that cycle until they're like, well, yeah, that's it. Now that you think about it, I've tried everything under the sun. I'm like, I can't imagine what that's felt like. Wow. Right? It's not your fault. You're so close. You're six inches away, right? And I think if you've said this one thing, which I'm about to show you in a second, we could be able to help.

0 (4h 20m 35s):
You wanna hear about the program? Fantastic. That's when we transition to the sale, right? So sell 'em a vacation. The number one thing that people mess up our sales pitch on the call is under three minutes, three minutes, 180 seconds. When we talk about, I think someone was asking about what are the bullets on the page? We don't say anything about that because what we're trying to do is get them to understand what they're going to experience, not how they're going to experience it, right? And so when we have a sales pitch just about every time we sell three things, right? And it doesn't matter what industry you're in, I was training a mortgage leads team and they were selling leads, right? And it was like the leads are exclusive, they're timely and they're qualified, right?

0 (4h 21m 16s):
And so we talked about, hey, we've had leads in the past. Ah, well the Zillow leads my real estate people, right? The Zillow leads are not, they are timely, but they're definitely not exclusive. And these are people just window shopping, right? Our leads are different. Three things. You can always find them. You're selling fitness, you're selling fitness, nutrition, accountability, right? And so what we do is when we say the three bullets, get 'em to understand, yes, that takes five seconds. Cool. Fitness wise, we get the commitment. This is what I need you to do. Fair enough. Just be like, I need to work out three days a week. Can you do that? Awesome. If we see any hesitation, you have a 32nd story that's memorized most of this script. And this is what makes it scalable, is a question-based framework. Which means if you get lost, you can find your way back again.

0 (4h 21m 57s):
If anybody here have scripts that are like paragraphs and stuff, anyone. Oh, okay. Like no, no one has a script. That's paragraphs and pages, please. We all know, but if you have those things, it'll totally mess it up because then the, the sales guy gets lost and then he's just free balling and he has no idea where he is. Hotdog in the hallway, no idea what's going on. Right? And so the point is here, little visual anyways, is that when we're telling the story, like with the fitness example, I would say, Hey, when you failed in the past, like right now, do you have a, do you have a favorite TV show? Game of Thrones? That's awesome. Do you feel like, like you gotta get motivated to watch Game of Thrones. You're like, oh man, I've been wanting to watch it but I just can't get up to motivation to watch tv.

0 (4h 22m 39s):
They're like, well no, I don't have that. It's like, right. And so that's exactly how we're gonna make your fitness program. So if you look forward to, you don't need the motivation, the willpower, because that's why you failed in the past. They're like, oh, I didn't talk about the workouts, the heart rate and the calories. They're gonna burn and they're gonna sweat 'cause all that shit sounds like work, right? But what they do get is exactly what they want, which is wait. So you're telling me that if I actually like something, I'm not gonna even have to try and it's gonna feel like watching tv 'cause I look forward to it. It's exactly what I'm saying. And if you can deliver, you make tons of money. And that's the point. So, and each of those points, your sales guy should know what that anecdotal story is, right?

0 (4h 23m 20s):
If I was selling accountability, anyone have kids, anyone here tell their kids to brush their teeth? Anyone have their kids to brush their teeth? Say they don't wanna brush their teeth? Anyone tell their kids, even though they don't wanna brush their teeth to brush their teeth anyways and now you're an adult, did your parents do that to you? Do you brush your teeth? That's an example of external accountability turning into an internal habit. That's exactly what the accountability we're gonna do in this program does for you. Does that make sense? Great. Done. Next bullet. That's how you transition in the pitch, right? So if you think about this process, why are you here? I have cancer. I think we might be able to help you out, but I don't wanna get into that because I don't know about you. Like I don't know what your situation is. Tell me what you've done. Ah, that sounds, that sounds great.

0 (4h 24m 0s):
That makes sense. Okay. I think we might be able to help again see a little bit about that. All it is, I tell three stories that make complete sense to everything you just told me. And then we transition. And so I pretty much just covered this, but we, we call it selling the vacation out the plane flight, right? And so we're not selling TSA, we're not selling your modules, your meal plan, your macros, your workout, your sport team, your URL as you are, URL is your whatever, right? We're selling Maui, we're selling the final destination. And it doesn't matter what level of service you are selling, you are always selling the same thing. It's always Maui. It's just how do you wanna get there? Do you wanna swim to Maui, right? Do you wanna take a boat to Maui? Do you wanna take a normal flight or do you wanna take a private jet to Maui, right? It's your call. You're getting to Maui either way 'cause we're a man of our word and I'm not gonna sell you something that's not gonna deliver, right?

0 (4h 24m 44s):
But it's gonna be a little different. It's a little bit rockier but we're can get you there. Alright? And so everyone gets to Maui, the variables are the que the speed and the quality of the journey. Alright? The likelihood of arrival is assumed. So since it's always the same thing, you probably have multiple levels of business, but it's always the same process, right? And so once we have that, they're like, got it. And then we just make the ask, alright, from this point going forward, it's explaining where their concerns, like any human being would normally do. I could drill price over comes with you. But I think it's more valuable to explain the thought process behind price stall and decision maker objections. Alright, so the first and obvious one is, I can't afford it. Anyone get this one? Right? Couple people, two people have gotten this.

0 (4h 25m 26s):
You guys have the best leads. Give me your leads. And so the easy question that I used to explain to our sales team, because it's really about breaking their leaves beliefs, is if we were giving away Ferrari right now for five grand, do you think they'd find a way to get the money? Yes. Yes. So that simply, they do not understand the value we're trying to provide. And if you can get your team to believe that, then they understand that it is always their fault if someone cannot afford the program. Does that make sense? Fantastic. Second decision maker, close, one of the hardest things to overcome, right? I gotta have my business partner, I gotta have my husband, my spouse, my whatever, right? So we give a specific process that we go about this.

0 (4h 26m 8s):
And so what we do is in the very beginning we just say we circumvent, then we go over past agreements and then we ask for forgiveness. Alright? This is the best way that I've seen to overcome this. So the first thing we say is, well what if they say no one out of three times? They'll be like, well I'd probably do it anyways. And we're like, let's get started. Boom, it's done. You'd be amazed how many times that actually works. It's hilarious. If they say, well then I wouldn't do it, then we divert and we say, well what do you think their biggest objection would be about it? 'cause now they're just using a foil even though the person's not there and has no idea what the program is. 'cause they're not involved with the call, right? They're like, well I think this and at this point we can attack the actual obstacle even though the DecisionMaker isn't there. Now if they still, if we still can't overcome it, then we go to past agreements.

0 (4h 26m 48s):
We say, well, does your business partner know that you guys are struggling on sales? Well, yeah. Does he approve of that? Well, no. Then why would he be against something that he already doesn't approve of? That doesn't make any sense. Why would he be? It's a business partner solving a problem. Isn't that what what you do? Well that's great, you're being a great partner, let's go. Right? And so we try and rely on past agreements that are obvious and use those to project into the present, right? And then finally, you know, sometimes it's better ask for forgiveness than permission, right? And so we'll tack that onto the end. You can put that at the end of any of the closes. And so when we're dealing with this with price, it's value with decision maker, we go on past agreements and with stalls we just teach people to make decisions.

0 (4h 27m 31s):
People just so afraid of making the wrong decision. They're petrified. And so we do is we literally teach them on the call, here's how we make a decision. These are the variables you should be considering. X, Y, and Z, right? Can the product meet your needs? Do you think that if you work with us, you'll have a greater or lower likelihood of losing weight greater? Fantastic. I think we're halfway there. Do you wanna work with us? Do you think it'd be fun to hang out and see me every day? 'cause believe me, this stash, I had to, I had to work 12 months to get my wife to say yes to that. So I understand if you're hesitant. Does that make sense? Would you be willing to do that? All right, let's rock, right? And then do you have access to funds or know someone who does? Right? Because it's not just about you. 'cause if it's something that's amazing, we can find other ways to finance this.

0 (4h 28m 11s):
So do you have access or know someone who does? Yes. Well then great, let's get started. And if for some reason we haven't closed 'em at this point, we say, how about this? Let's take a card down. We'll delay the payment to Friday. You go to your husband, you go to your business partner, right? You go to your, I love this one, you go to your husband, right? And he says, baby, I want you to live a shorter life. I want you to, I want you to be a terrible example of our kids. I want you to not have generational health in our family to be passed down. I want you to sit in that corner. I want you to pull those sweatpants up, take up a bag of Cheetos, rub your fingers on there, right? And just get comfortable with the fact that you're never gonna look better than you are right now. It's like if your husband says that to you, you call me back and I'll tear this contract up.

0 (4h 28m 52s):
Fair enough. Right? And you close 'em. Alright, so we explain where their concerns and then finally we get the yes, we reinforce the decision. This is stuff that we started doing and it helped a lot. So personalized video from the CEO. Hey, welcome aboard. So happy to have you. Thank you for trusting us with your business. Hey, we're so happy to have you. Thank you for trusting me with your your weight loss journey. And our personalized says we're gonna do everything in our power to absolutely amaze you, right? Little things like that because the customer's usually deciding whether or not they like your business in the first 48 hours after the sale. I learned this later. So how you hand off from sale to customer experience and activation is where this all happens. Does that make sense? Does that cool? Was that nice? That framework to work through. Okay. So that's the explosive framework.

0 (4h 29m 33s):
That is the first thing. That's what you can run your script through. Alright? How to ask the questions to get the prospects to say yes. Check one down, two to go. You with me? You still good? Alright, let's rock. Let, so conviction framework number two, how anyone who believes can outperform a seasoned sales rep by simply learning to control their tone. Alright? So after I reworked all of our scripts using the closer framework, some of my guys were really successful but other ones still blew. And I was like, well this sucks, right? I was really excited. I had a little acronym and everything. I was like, that took me a long time to come with the acronym, right? And I was like, what gives? And so I talked to some of my friends and they recommended this book, which was awesome.

0 (4h 30m 17s):
And the biggest takeaway from this book is the, is the concept of tone. And this was something that really helped take us and give an extra edge for our sales training, our sales process and the coaching that we give people, right? And so in the book he talked about the hidden dialogue, which I just love and I just, I just never wanna take credit for an idea 'cause I got it from him. But there's two dialogues that are happening, right? Because the words are the logic, right? What you're actually saying is talking to the logical brain. How you say it is talking to the emotional brain, right? And that's the one that's making a decision. That's the one running the shot. Alright? And so how you say what you say is what you say. So here's an example.

0 (4h 30m 57s):
Ask my wife, she's gonna be here with me soon, but if she were here, if she said Alex, right? Or Alex, right? Or Alex, very different meetings, very different afternoon for me in each of these scenarios, right? Based on how she said it. Because there's so much communicated and that's just one word. Imagine a 30 minute dialogue where each word can be chosen to have packed with the meaning that you need them to feel. Does that make sense? Okay. So we need the words for the logical influence. We need the tone for the emotional influence. We need both. Okay? And so once you become a more seasoned like sales rep, you can learn to control your tone on purpose, right?

0 (4h 31m 41s):
You can raise your voice at the end of the statement to make it into a question, right? It's a question. This is John, right? I didn't need to ask him. I'm saying, you know, to answer that as a question, I didn't ask you that, but you know that based on the tone, right? Or I could lower my voice for now. So you know what I'm saying, extremely important, right? Tone matters. And so it takes time to develop this level of unconscious. Master it. So there's two ways to develop this and I believe that you can either trick yourself into it or you can train yourself into it. And since I don't have enough time in 30 minutes to train on the influence of tonalities, here's the trick is that, all right, I'll just give you the hack conviction will correct your tone.

0 (4h 32m 24s):
If you believe in what you sell, you will say it the right way. And that's why some of you guys have a sales rep who comes on, crushes it and then tanks because they did believe and then they saw your reviews or they got customer support feedback or someone called 'em up after buying it was like, fuck you, I can't believe you did that. And they're done and then all their tone's off because they feel like out of ethics, right? And so I'm lowering my tone right now so you know that this is really important, right? And so I'll go upbeat, kiss the boo boo, bring us back up. Alright? And so real estate sales team consulting, this is is a great story. So I was flown out, paid way more money than I should have been paid to fly out and consult with the sales team. All right? They were selling mortgage leads, the example I was giving earlier.

0 (4h 33m 7s):
And they were really excited and they wanted me to give this a, B, c, always be closing chat, like this huge pump up chat. And so I spent the first half of the day on the script and the second half of the day was supposed to be drilling the sales team, right? So I get on the sales team, they got I think got a nine person sales floor and they were like, we're having some problems with this guy John. I was like, alright cool. So I was like, John, how good are the leads? He was like, well you know, there's kind of, and I was like, I'm good, thank you. And I was like, because if you fucking thought the leads were good, you would say, dude, they're unreal. I can't believe it right now I'm getting my mom to pass her real estate certification so I can start sending her leads. I'm studying for mine, I'm a couple months behind, but I'm telling you as soon as I fucking get this thing passed, I'm outta here.

0 (4h 33m 49s):
I'm gonna start buying these leads myself 'cause I'll make more than I make right now as a sales guy, that's what you'd say if you believed right the way you say and what you'd say would be entirely different. And so one of the hacks on this, by the way, has anyone ever gotten hot or has sales guy got hot starts just closing, closing, closing, closing. Anyone that becomes the sales training for that person. Because the way they ask the question, at what point how they closed, that's how it's perfect. And so they should study the best game footage when they're on a streak and that's when you can replicate it much more easily. 'cause it's like in the wild, you'll witness it and that's when they're masters, right? In those moments. Alright? And so these are the actions that we do. So I'm transitioning into tactics for you guys who have teams, right?

0 (4h 34m 32s):
Reread the testimonials out loud daily in front of your sales team. If you got fresh ones, which you should read, 'em makes their day, makes 'em feel like they're making impact, right? They're getting the shit kicked out of 'em every single day, getting hung up on getting cussed at getting told a fuck off every day, right? And like the best thing you can do is give 'em a cup of coffee that says Hey man, you're fucking doing good in the world right's what they need. So do it every day. Number two, fix everything you can about the product. This is obvious, but I wanna say it directly like don't blame the customer for lack of success. 'cause it doesn't help anyone, right? It doesn't help them, doesn't help us. If we can take ownership then we can fix the product, right? Three, never stop improving it. So you always know it's up to date and this is a good one for the sales team. If you're a sales dip, take your head of customer support, bring 'em to the sales meeting and say, Erica, tell these guys what you do for our customers.

0 (4h 35m 20s):
And they're like, oh well the first day what we do is we send 'em this text and we send 'em this letter and then we give them swag and then we follow up with them and then we like write 'em a handwritten card and then leave 'em a back massage and a foot massage and then we find a wife for them. It's unbelievable. You know what I mean? And then the sales guys are like, God this is fucking awesome. I'm like, I know, let's go sell it. Right? And so these are the actions that you can do on a daily basis to get your team to be excellent, alright? And so that's how you can hack conviction and get your team's tone unconsciously correct by just truly believing in the product. Is that cool? You think you'd sell more if you did that? Hell yeah. Sweet. Thank you. Alright, conviction framework number two, check. Alright, number three, scaling framework. How to easily duplicate this process across salespeople in any niche in seven days or less.

0 (4h 36m 1s):
Alright, so we've talked about closure framework, we talked about conviction framework and this is the, oops, I think I'm gonna skipped one. Oh no where you are back. Great. So when I showed my sales team to this stuff, they didn't do it every time, all right? 'cause you're probably gonna come back from here, all gungho, you might show 'em this video and they're like, yeah and they go rah rah for two to three days and then it's like back to normal, right? No one wants that. So piece by piece we implemented processes to get the same outcome over and over and over again because of the $110 million we've sold, which is crazy. It's been a hundred percent over the phone. No one over the age of 20, no we got one guy who's 40 but beyond besides him. Everyone's younger than 27 do 27, 27 years old, alright? Like these aren't like crazy seat, you know what I mean?

0 (4h 36m 43s):
Like crazy veterans, right? You just do this process over, over again and get the right thing. That's the total aside. Find people and educate them about your prospect, not your product because that's a big fuck up. 'cause like they shouldn't even be talking that much about the product. They should be knowing everything about the prospect. And so right now, if your sales training is focused on your product doing it wrong, these are the six C's that I use to scale teams from little guy to lots of guys. All right? So this still to, you know, we use this to build a 3000 person affiliate base in our physical products company. It added 35 million in sales, which is cool, which is awesome. And so I'll show you how this works. All right?

0 (4h 37m 23s):
And so we've used these sales teams and this is how we've kind of, these were all multi figure teams and I'll show you what we did. Alright, so close your sequence is the first C which we went over earlier. The second C is consistent daily training and conviction. And I'll show you how to do each of these call recordings. You gotta record 'em. Communication cycles, cuts and competition. Those are the six Cs. Alright? So number one, make sure you have a question based framework that follows those steps in the script. It should just be questions. It's so much easier to just follow questions. 'cause if someone's out and you know out in left field, you know wandering on like onto the highway, you're like whoa, hey come back over here. This is the next question in this process. So thank you so much for sharing that. That must have been so hard for you.

0 (4h 38m 4s):
So what do you think that brought you? Right? You go right into the next question, the sale. Alright, number two, consistent daily training. This is the number one thing. If you take one thing away from this besides conviction, 'cause that'll do more for yourselves than anything. This is the second biggest thing, alright? Is that daily training. Our team trains 60 minutes a day, five days a week. We actually do twice a day stuff, but that's okay anyways, for right now, if you just do this, you'll already be way better than everyone else in your in your market. Alright? So we do talking and listening because a salesperson needs to know how to speak the right tone. You know how to listen, right? And so we drill both scales for talking. We have 'em read the script out loud and the questions with the correct tonality for 25 minutes.

0 (4h 38m 43s):
And if they fuck up, they start again. Simple. Five minutes we drill. S go overcomes, I need to think about it. I'm not sure I don't have the money, can't afford that right now. I gotta talk to my partner, right? I know what's gonna work in my market or whatever your specific obstacles are because those, when they're in the red zone, they shouldn't have to think about those. So the only two things that someone will ever truly memorize will be those 32nd anecdotal stories I mentioned earlier. And your obstacle overcomes it makes it much easier to get new people on the team listening. So every day we'll listen to a 30 minute recording and we'll go with what went right in this call. What went wrong whatcha gonna do next time? Very simple, right?

0 (4h 39m 24s):
You play the call, everyone watches it's game tape review. We're like man you got kicked in the balls on this one, right? But you had great rapport in the first five minutes, right? You're like, what went wrong? And that was about it. And what you can do next time. I'm gonna transition from the report to the question asking without sounding like a douche bag. Fantastic. Alright, next day. And you continue to improve. I know this sounds crazy simple, but it's so simple, no one will do it. So number three Cs is call recordings. If you don't call like record your calls one you're not compliant. But two, like how are you gonna study game film? You know what I mean? Everybody's got all their data and you've got your, your mouse tracking on all the pages. I'm like how? Where's the mouse tracking on the calls, right?

0 (4h 40m 4s):
That's where, that's where you're gonna train your team. This is like every NBA team. They play The Game and they watch The Game footage, right? Why are we not doing that with the sales team? And so you should have to record it. If you use zoom, gong is absolutely the best. Highly recommend it. It's been awesome. We use this for two years. They'll tell you exactly how many minutes people are talking versus someone else. They'll tell you who's talking the most, where, how many questions we're asked at the AI they have there. Unbelievable. It's expensive but it's worth it. Four comm cycles and feedback. I dunno if you guys have heard the story, but if I were trying to fix your golf swing, right? And I said, okay, so I take a swing looking like I do like a, like an idiot, right? And he is like, all right man, well first off, lose 40 pounds. So you can rotate right after you do that.

0 (4h 40m 45s):
Change your wrist by two degrees, turn your other hand over, put your thumb underneath. I need you to take your first foot, put it forward and then point it the other way and then put this foot back and try again. I'm fucked. No chance of swinging, right? But if you just said, hey, take another 20 swings and just put one thumb under the other one, I'd have one thing to work on and I could probably get better. And so when you're training and, and this is for the sales directors, if you're helping 'em out with that call or went, what went right, went, went wrong. The what am I gonna do about it is the one thing. Does that make sense? And so in terms of communication cycles, we do weekly with the team. We've got daily training, we've got daily wrap up at the end, which is really just to pump up and kiss him on the forehead goodnight to make sure they feel okay, right?

0 (4h 41m 29s):
'cause they do get punched in the face all day. So it's, it's worth being like, Hey, you see Derrick's overcome this morning, he's fucking awesome, he killed it. Let's watch that as like highlight footage. Like watch him say he's gonna have to talk to his wife. Bow overcome, right? And then, and then they're like, dude, you killed it. And then it just makes them feel like they're part of the team, right? And so that's where we do the feedback and the communication cycles. And then we do once a once a week, if they're new we'll do one-on-ones. If they're a little bit older, we'll do once every other week, week. Does that make sense? Can you use this right now what I'm giving you for your sales teams? Yeah. Okay, sweet. Number five, cut the fat, cut it fast. Randy probably knows this better than anyone when you hire salespeople, at least in my experience, like it's sink or swim.

0 (4h 42m 10s):
Like if guys, if guys can't close in the first week to two weeks, unless it's some sort of crazy complex thing, they ain't closing, right? And then I've got somebody who now came in neutral, now they feel like they suck, right? They're actually worse than someone who's new. 'cause now I gotta overcome all your beliefs and then bring you back up. And so in my experience, it's been much easier to take a six and get 'em to a nine than try and take than try and take a two and get 'em to a five. It's more work and it's not good for me or him. Right? Does that make sense? So in most cases, does anyone have a salesperson that you've been waiting for them to turn the corner for the last like six months? They're not gonna turn the corner unless they have like a come to Jesus moment, which does happen, but it doesn't need to happen on my team. You can do that and come back, right?

0 (4h 42m 51s):
Alright, number six, competition and career path. All right? It was a big one. So salespeople are competitive, right? As they should be, right? They're hunters and they should go hunt. And so having competition on a regular basis, what we have found is that six week cycles tends to work best. It is long enough that they believe they can accomplish something, but short enough that believe it's gonna happen soon. And so we run our competitions on six week cycles for us. I think what you said, whatever Ryan said about the percentages, 10 to 15% actually works pretty well as like a group goal. When we have those as like top sales person would like, we did like Weekend to Vegas, so we'll split all the guys that we had like four teams of four, you know what I mean? And they're all compet. So it's like you get the co the competitiveness but you still get the camaraderie.

0 (4h 43m 32s):
'cause if it's just one, you know, one versus everyone, sometimes they can get a little bit too, you know, teethy. And so having like little mini teams helps too. 'cause then you can, you can kind of like make it an adjusted draft. You put the best guy with the worst guy and then he helps him out and he speeds him up. Does that make sense? And then career path, this is one that I probably learned later, but it's really good, is that you can have minor, minor road milestones. Like 50 deals closed, a hundred deals closed, 150 deals closed, right? And they just get a little, just a little, you know, they go from 500 a deal to 5 25 a deal, right? They go from 5 25 deal to five 50 a deal. Just the fact that there's this, this roadmap of where they're going and there's actual progress because sales is one of the most repetitive positions in the world.

0 (4h 44m 16s):
Just the fact that they're doing this and they're something is changing on the outside, I think just helps relieve anxiety and help the guys focus. So that is one of the things that I would recommend doing with the career path. And then obviously if you have roles like depending on how big your team is, manager, et cetera, and you can move up. Something that I don't have on here that I'll add is that this seems to be common practice, but remember dumbest marketer on earth, outbound and inbound, keep 'em separated. And we also have setters and closers for both of those teams. So outbound sets are different than inbound sets, which go to different ink closers on either side, right? Because the prospects are a little bit different, right? And so if you, if you have lots of different types of leads, gonna the same person, you're probably losing a lot of efficiency if you don't have that much lead flow that's under the issue.

0 (4h 45m 0s):
But it's, it's as soon as you can, separating 'em out will get you a lot, a lot higher conversion rates. All right, so I'll recap this, the six for scaling our closure sequence. Make sure that it's in a question based framework. Daily trainings and convictions. So you're reading the testimon every day, you're training 'em every morning on talking, listening, the most valuable skills that a salesperson can have call recordings to make sure that they're actually doing it of game take footage to actually look at communication cycles to actually improve on their skills based on The Game footage that we just had. You cut the bottom. People who are just dragging the team down that probably just don't have the makeup for this. And then you keep it competitive and you give 'em a career path so they have something to look forward to in the future. All right? And so now you can understand how anyone can sell expensive fly paper pro, even if you don't think you're any good, which is completely normal.

0 (4h 45m 41s):
Yeah, that's sales.

Acquisition.com (4h 45m 46s):
If these kind of higher level strategies and, and in-depth tactics that I've shared on my podcast are things that you would like us to personalize to your business to help you get to the next level, and you are a, you know, million dollar plus business owner, then I'd like to invite you out to a scaling workshop at my headquarters in Vegas. And just to give you some context, the average business owner in the room does just about $3 million in revenue. And we turn down about 65 to 75% of applicants that apply on a weekly basis. And so we try to keep the room really legit and the scores that we get in terms of NPS, so net promoter scores have been kind of off the off the charts. And so people seem to really like it and get a huge amount of value from it. And so if that's at all interesting, you can go to aq.com/go. Alright, so I try to make this URL as easy as possible 'cause just type it in. So it's aq.com/go, as in go, go versus stop, go. That's it. So aq.com/go and I hope to see you in Vegas soon.